When parents have a child that is reluctant to read, they wonder what they can do to help them. It may take place when your child is doing their reading homework for twenty to thirty minutes. It might happen before there is an upcoming book report due. When you have a reluctant reader it can be hard to know how to respond especially when they announce, "I hate to read!"  The last thing you want to do is to turn your child's resistance to read into a battle between you which could turn into a real aversion, so when this occurs you want to approach the situation carefully. We'll discuss ideas to assist you and your reluctant reader in this article. The first thing we'll go over is to figure out why your child is averse to reading and how to welcome boredom. 

We'll go over giving choices next. Then we'll talk about how to get out and finish with audible reading. You'll be able to assist your reluctant reader once you familiarize yourself with the ides in this article. 

1. Find Out Why Your Child Hates Reading

Having an ongoing conversation with your resistant reader's teacher is the first thing you should do.  The discussion with the teacher will determine if it would be advantageous for your youngster to have the support and specialized assessment because learning difficulties that are undiagnosed can look like resistance. It is just too difficult for some children. The fact is that for some children the right book just hasn't been located. 

Technology is distracting to some children. How to tackle the problem can be figured out once you find out the "why." There are low-pressure ways to select a book like making sure that there is some tech-free time available, choosing a book at your kid's reading level, and finding a book that piques their interest. 

2. Offer Choices

Is there another choice you want to make? Provide some choices when your child doesn't want to read. You could ask them if they would like to tackle one of their chores before they sit down to read or you could say, "How many pages can you read before you think you might need to take a break?" It makes a difference in how they spend their time when you have some influence over it 

Set a timer and give them ten-minute breaks when they are bored with a book they have to read for school. Once they finish the page or chapter, let them break the reading up, and you can say, "You deserve a break so let's get back to it after we do something else."
 They deserve some playtime so give them a break. 

3. Read Aloud

When you are growing as a reader, your reading comprehension isn't as high as your listening comprehension so you could say, "Why don't I do the reading?" It is good for youngsters to hear the way of reading a book should sound. On their own, kids usually don't stay engaged with intricate plots and language, however, you can spark a child's interest by reading out loud to them. Find a book for your kid that is at their reading level and encourage them to read it. 

Additionally, as much as you can, read out loud to them. Ideally, find something that excites them. 

4. Get Out

Use the library as an outing. While at the library, let them roam free. Tell them that they can check out enough books to fill a bag before they roam the aisles. They will be more likely to read some of the books if they are allowed to choose books that they like. Reading all of them isn't even required. 

Even if they only read one book, that's better than not reading any. However, they will be more interested in reading when they are allowed to select the books that look good to them. 

5. Embrace Boredom

Read between the lines when you hear your child say, "I hate reading," "It's boring," or "I don't like it." Actually, what they might really be saying is, "I don't think I'm a good reader. Many times behind this veil of "I don't like it" comes from thinking that some kids are better at it than others and that includes me. It can really make a significant difference when you can explain to kids that things like reading skills get better over time by doing it even when it's hard. 

You can develop a positive mindset by thinking about what you're going to say before you say it, for instance, "I'm not musically inclined", or "I'm not good and following directions." When your youngster is having difficulties with reading, encourage them and remind them that they are getting smarter because they are cultivating the connections in their brain. 

When it is time for your child to do their reading homework you may have noticed their reluctance. Your child may not be in a hurry to read even when a book report is coming due. You don't want to turn your child off of reading completely so when this occurs tread lightly. We've discussed various suggestions that will assist your reluctant reader in this article. The first thing we went over was to find out why your kid hates to read as well as how to welcome boredom. 

We discussed how to offer choices after that. We then discussed getting out and finished up with audible reading. Use these suggestions to assist your reluctant reader now that you familiarized yourself with the ideas in this article. 