While in severe economic depression and recession, our country is still extremely wealthy. Thousands of wood and mounds of paper wastes are burned each day. The beauty of the countryside scenery is currently being littered with countless tin and metal wastes that are more than enough to encircle the Earth. Making use of something you usually throw away is one of the best feelings you can be proud of, not only the pride of saving some cash but more so of helping the country recycle and reduce its top concern, which is waste. 

In this article, you will discover a few familiar objects you discard in your day-to-day life, which you can still reuse to make your life convenient or recycling. 

1. Bags 

Paper sacks can be useful in other ways, aside from their general use. Use it as a trash can by hanging it from the back of your seat in the car. It will help the children not to get tempted to litter. If someone is sick at home with a cold or the likes, you can secure a bag on one side of the bed to have a used cleansing tissue bin handy and avoid scattering the germs. 

To quickly and easily empty the cloth bag on your vacuum cleaner, shake it out over a larger paper sack. You can also use a heavy paper bag as a cover for both ends of a rolled rug covered with paper to keep it from dust. 

2. Bottle Cap

When you have a dent, patch it with a bottle cap. Can you find dents and scratches in your wooded table? Place a wet cloth over the dented spot. Then, place the metal bottle cap at the table over the dent with the scalloped edge facing upward, not downward. Lightly press the very tip of a hot iron against the center of the cap. Repair your plunger, "aka plumber's helper," by using a bottle cap. 

If the rubber at the end of the plunger keeps slipping off, tighten it into the handle by nailing a metal bottle cap at the end and pushing it into the rubber plunger to make it fit. 

3. Coat Hangers

People have been inspired to write articles because of the many uses they have. We don't recommend using wire hangers to make trellises and fences because they get rusted easily. You will, however, find them adaptable to forming a skirt hanger by pinching the ends and curving up the wire to hang the skirt by safety pins and to create a trouser hanger by pinching the ends, then to slip through the belt loops. Nothing beats a straightened coat hanger to clean and remove something wedged inside your vacuum-cleaner tube when you have no available stiff wire to use. 

You can always redneck together a drying rack for socks, stockings, and other small laundry items using two coat hangers to lash things like cake racks or discarded refrigerator shelving together. Keep your hangers handy in an apartment with limited space; you can place them in the closet or on the shower rod in the bathroom. 

4. Fruit Crates

If you're a carpenter or a DIY-er, fruit crates are the best for creating various wooden projects. They still have practical uses even for other people without skills. You can use the sectional ones to set up temporary cabinets in a corner, as storage for cleaning supplies under the sink, or as canned goods shelving. You can fasten a small curtain rod with a cup hook or small nail across the front to hang a drawstring curtain over the front to hide the contents from view. 

You can your fruit cake and think of a bookcase, turn it using a shellacked of mementos and memorabilia like menus and dance programs on the area of the crate-turned-bookcase. 

5. Milk Cartons 

Just like coat hangers, milk cartons can also be used for many different things. For a short time, some foods can be kept in one that has been thoroughly washed out in the freezer. To save yourself from constantly washing and deodorizing regular containers for odoriferous foods like fish, you can use milk boxes, cut in lengthwise, to store these food items instead. They make wonderful seed flats when you cut them lengthwise. 

When your young plants are ready to be transplanted into the garden; it is simple to move them. Also, you can make excellent plant collars for your tomato plants by cutting milk cartons crosswise; this is best in keeping cutworms away. Sow your seeds thinly for this method. Also, you can make excellent plant collars for your tomato plants by cutting milk cartons crosswise; this is best in keeping cutworms away. 

6. Newspaper 

A wonderful aid to clean with is the newspaper. When you have nothing else around you can do many things with newspapers; clean your windows, polish with dry newspaper, and swab with wet ones. When brushing your radiators clean, putting a damp newspaper under it will catch and hold down flying dust. Similarly, a dampened newspaper can be used in place of a paper bag to catch vacuum cleaner dirt. Save yourself from mopping up when defrosting by spreading some newspaper over the upper shelf of your refrigerator, below the defrosting tray, but remove it once done to avoid blocking the cold from your food. 

Newspapers can also serve as a protecting agent. During transportation, you can wrap wet newspaper around the roots of a plant to keep the air away or around the stems of a bouquet to keep them fresh. Avoid dampening yourself and your car by wrapping it up with a large plastic vegetable bag. Using 24 double pages inside a muslin cover makes an excellent substitute for a patient's or child's disposable bed pad rubber sheet. 

7. Rancid Grease 

You can make laundry soap from accumulated drippings or grease. Make 2 quarts of strained melted fat by collecting 5 pounds of grease. Use a cheesecloth to strain the fat and measure it after doing so. Pour a one-pound can of lye into a quart of water while the grease cools down. Cautiously pour this into an earthenware container or stone jar, and stir it with only a wooden spoon or stick, do not use metal. Lye is a very strong alkali, use caution so that you do not splash it on anything, even yourself. 

Once dissolved and cooled off completely, slowly pour the lye mixture over the already cold melted grease into an enamel or earthenware container. Continuously stir the new mixture until everything is combined. Dissolve 2 tablespoons of borax in 1/2 cup of water, then add 1/2 cup of household ammonia into the lye-and-grease mixture. Then stir until it reaches the consistency of thin pudding or honey. Allow the mixture to harden for several hours after pouring into a mold made of earthenware or granite. Before it becomes fully hardened, cut the square into individual cakes. Keep the soap cakes in a dry area for about 6 weeks to allow them to harden. The soap will continue to harden with age; the older the soap is, the longer it will last. 

8. Tea

Cold tea, specifically black tea, can soothe sunburn due to its tannic acid content. If you have tired eyes, it can also be a perfect soothing poultice. Lie down, then place a piece of absorbent cotton that has been dipped into strong cold tea over closed eyelids for 15 minutes. As a substitution, use tea bags that have been lightly squeezed out. 

You can also fertilize house plants with tea leaves. Strong tea is also useful when starching dark-colored materials, and it will help prevent the white film from showing on the cloth once added into the starch solution. Using a tea-dipped cloth for wiping varnished furniture and surfaces is also recommended. 

9. Toothbrush

If you are looking for an excellent cleaner, then look no further than your old toothbrush! It can be used to clean lint from parts of the sewing machine or dust off the typewriter keys. You can use a soft-bristled one for flossing raised patterns on your precious silverware. To make your cut glass pieces sparkly shine, use an old toothbrush with suds and some ammonia. 

Use one when you have corners that are hard to reach when dusting. With the help of a handy-dandy old toothbrush, hard-to-get-at crevices in your stove burners and waffle irons are a problem no more. Removing mud from your shoes and boots is a simple chore when using this. 

10. Towels

When you are washing delicate glassware, place an old towel down in the dishpan first. You can also place another one in the drainboard before putting washed glasses on it. For old towels that are just a little bit worn out at the edge, stitch it over or rebind it. To reuse towels that are already worn out in the center, cut up the good sections, then hem it to use as dishcloths, washcloths, pot holders, etc. 

You can also come up with something creative like sewing it into a mitt form with soap chips pocket for your shower or bathroom. Or, making a bag out of it for your hot water bottle is another great idea! 

Reuse, it sounds just as simple as it is. Find a way to make an item useful again rather than throwing it away. Reusing an item is possible no matter the size, be it as small as a button or large as a building. You will save money if you reuse, and also a great way to show compassion to Mother Earth. 

It just might be the right time to think like your grandmother when you next need to fix something or get something. Be creative, be practical, be Earth-friendly, and check out your local repair, rental, consignment, or vintage shops! 