Parents can play a basic but powerful role in the success of your child's literacy skills. Reading is a skill acquired through learning. It takes hands-on teaching for a child to learn how to read. A lot of children do not naturally develop the skill of reading. To enhance the success and comprehension of  your child's literacy there are early strategies of reading that you can implement We'll discuss strategies for having early success in reading in this article. The first thing we will go over is how to institute a routine and how to allow the freedom to read. 

Then we'll go over how to give encouragement and show affection. We will finish up how to do active reading and teaching. In this article, you will become versed in the concepts and strategies that can guarantee your child's early reading success. 

1. Establish A Routine

Research, as well as parenting and educational materials, show that children succeed through routines. Much like discipline, make reading a routine that you can engage with your child daily and other activities, such as playtime and training. Start by dedicating a specific time and space for reading. Read aloud to your child for at least 15 minutes a day. 

Discuss the story further with your child and encourage them to look at the pictures.  When you are reading with your youngster be uplifting and stay optimistic. 

2. Allow Freedom To Read

Letting your child participate in selecting a story or a book will encourage their interest in reading. Keeping books with your child's reach makes them readily available to them. Expose your child to various types of books and motivate them to read more by taking them to a bookstore or to your local library. When it is time for your child to select a book, allow them to have some choices. 

It helps not to force your child to read. The last thing you want to do is to negatively affect their reading in any way. 

3. Teach Active Reading

Pay attention to see if your child is comprehending the story by asking questions. Learning how to read also teaches children how to hold a book and at the same time get involved in the story. They also learn how pictures relate to the story and characters. To maintain your youngster's curiosity and focus while they are experiencing this new activity of reading point to certain pictures throughout the book or on the cover and ask what specific characters might do next. 

Doing so helps pique your child's interest and keeps them engaged in the learning process. Keeping your child involved is your goal. 

4. Show Affection And Encouragement

It is key to always be encouraging and to stay positive while you are reading to your child. Cuddling with your child while reading is worthwhile. You can exhibit affection and show support verbally and physically. Verbally reward your child's ability to focus and ask questions with positive statements like, "You're doing a wonderful job paying attention to the story." or "I like how you are 
focusing on how the character is feeling." 

The support and enthusiasm that you give your child are fundamental in their willingness to have input, share their thoughts, and pay attention because reading is something new and unfamiliar to them. 

The ability to read is a skill that is learned. A youngster requires direct instruction to learn how to read. Reading development doesn't just happen naturally in the majority of children. Early success with literacy comprehension can be enhanced by putting early reading strategies into place. We've discussed strategies to ensure successful reading in this article. The first thing we went over was how to set up a routine and how to allow the freedom to read. 

We then discussed how to be encouraging and how to show affection. Afterward, we finished with how to read actively. You will be able to implement strategies that will ensure successful reading once you have familiarized yourself with these ideas. 