There are times when you need to focus on yourself and just shut the rest of the world out. You will quickly burn yourself out when you do not take the time needed for renewing yourself, you are after all a limited resource. To enjoy the benefits of coloring, allowing yourself to be in the moment is an important note to remember. Feeling guilty over not working or secretly thinking of other things will prevent the benefits you would receive by coloring. The reasons that you should make coloring your new hobby are explored in this article. Looking at anxiety and stress is where we will start, including the use of "coloring therapy". 

How to use coloring as a meditation alternative is what we will explain next. Coloring for healing will then be covered, and improving your productivity with coloring is what we will close with. You will know why your new hobby should be coloring as you learn the concepts covered in this article. 

1. “Coloring Therapy”

One form of therapy is coloring. People will often confuse the more involved process that requires a relationship between the therapist and client called art therapy. Coloring can help you break from negative behaviors and thoughts, provide mental clarity and focus, and reduce stress. It gives many benefits, such as exploring feelings, fostering self-awareness, improving the orientation of reality, and as a great alternative method to meditation. The amygdala, the fear center in the brain, can be relaxed by coloring. 

By reducing the thoughts of a restless mind, the same state can be induced during meditation. After a long day at work, this allows your mind to rest by generating quietness and mindfulness. 

2. Stress and Anxiety

The dramatic decrease in anxiety and stress is one of the most amazing aspects gained from coloring. Because of this, post-traumatic stress disorder and insomnia are helped. When a person experiences something that can trigger a flashback that causes them to relive a traumatic event, it is called PTSD. The section of the brain that is responsible for fear, the amygdala, has the focus removed from it while coloring. 

The free-floating thoughts that lead to stress are pushed out when the focus is centered on coloring. The opposite effect of stress, relaxation, is produced when coloring. When coloring is done just a few minutes before bedtime, it helps with insomnia due to this reason. 

3. Alternative to Meditation

Coloring can produce the same results for those people who can not get into meditation. Mindfulness is accomplished when coloring removes thoughts from the focus. The brain is allowed the same break that is accomplished by meditation. You are allowed to immerse yourself in the creative experience when you can enter the carefree state of mind that "adult coloring" allows you. 

Many of us have become disconnected from our creative side, but coloring enables us to tap into our creativity again. It would be too easy for you to get back into it since there are various designs you can choose from both online and in stores, giving you unlimited coloring options. 

4. Happiness

Something that is completely individualistic is created when positivity is increased by coloring. People still choose things style of blending, color intensity, and colors used even when using the designed patterns of coloring pages. Order is created using the precise lines of pens, markers, and color pencils. A sense of accomplishment occurs when all of these work together to promote happiness. A highly accessible self-help tool that is inexpensive and effective is provided when negative psychological outcomes are improved from daily coloring. 

It becomes difficult for people to stay focused on the current moment when they are anxious or stressed. Rather than focusing on what is happening at that given moment right in front of them, most of their thoughts are essentially centered around things like their to-do list or what they are worried about. The brain can relax when it focuses on a simple activity with a predictable outcome outside of itself. 

5. Healing

The happy emotions of a simpler time are brought back by coloring. You have help connecting with your inner child and easing the tensions that occur from daily responsibilities by being a child again. Current problems can quite often be traced to something from the past. Healing begins as people reconnect with that child when the inner child is included by coloring. According to researchers, the symptoms of emotional and physical distress occurring during cancer treatments show a significant decrease for women who engaged in mindfulness art therapy. 

People with other conditions, including trauma, addictions, anxiety, and depression, have also found art therapy to help cope. Your attention is held on a present-moment event; rather than on the things that keep you stressed out when doing something as simple as coloring. This is very similar to how meditative exercise works. 

6. Memory Loss

If you're familiar with the saying, "Use it or lose it," well, it's true for your brain. The lesser we get our brains working, the higher our chances of developing dementia and Alzheimer's. The onset of memory-loss issues such as dementia can be slowed down or prevented once you regularly enjoy coloring. Concentrating on a simple and calming activity like coloring can boost brain activity, stimulate positive thoughts, and even promote better social skills. 

These amazing effects of coloring are especially helpful for those elderly in memory care. We need to use our imaginations more and express our thoughts. Coloring offers a creative channel for older people to let out their inner kid once more. 

7. Productivity

The act of coloring uses the brain's frontal lobe responsible for focus, attention, logic, and creativity, thus strengthening a person's problem-solving and organizational skills. It also helps boost people's productivity. Moreover, the use of color has been shown to get one's creative juices flowing. Which, in turn, helps a person's writing and math abilities. If you think it's childish, stop those thoughts! 

The fact that coloring has been proven to boost our memory and creativity also improves our work engagement while lowering stress is no child's play. Your brain will love to color. In return, coloring helps your brain sort information while keeping it engaged! 

On occasion, you need to take the time to focus on yourself and shut out the world. Becoming burned out easily happens to those who fail to take the time needed for themselves. To enjoy the benefits gained from adult coloring, allowing yourself to be in the moment is crucial. We have looked into the reasons why adult coloring should be your new hobby in this article. Firstly, we talked about anxiety and stress, including the use of "coloring therapy." 

Then, we discussed using coloring as a meditation alternative. Using coloring for healing was then covered, and we concluded with improving your productivity by coloring. You will now know why your new hobby should be coloring from learning the concepts in this article. 