Perhaps your child is well aware of how to read but does not enjoy it. This article is perfect for you! This question has many answers. Initially, you need to ask your child outright. You can then begin to assist your child on their journey to learn how much fun reading is after you know their reasons. Your child will only be discouraged if you set unrealistic goals, demands, bribe, or nag. We look into ways to inspire your child to read for pleasure in this article. We will go over how to lower your child's anxiety, including the use of technology first. 

Step two, we will cover utilizing different methods to read. Afterward, we will cover the reading (including additional reading), and finish with finding an alternate method to introduce books. Once you read this article, you will be equipped to guide and encourage your child to read for fun. Below are six different ways to encourage your child to read for fun. 

1. Use Technology

No one said that all reading had to be only from a book. Reading an online article requires just as much reading for an older child as reading in a book does. When having an every-day conversation, ask questions, or present an idea to prompt your child. "Check whether you can get some answers about the various items organizations can make from reusing plastic." Nowadays, kids are very tech-savvy. 

With your supervision, ask your child to find the answers by searching online. You can accomplish many tasks with this type of research. You will need a host of skills when reading on the internet. Following links to find answers, selecting, scanning, searching, and researching. A child can end up reading quite a lot about the topic or subject when looking for a single answer, sparks curiosity, and more questions. 

2. Lower Your Child's Anxiety

Reading can create anxiety when a child has any difficulties with language. A child can feel uncomfortable and frustrated even when they do not understand what the word anxiety means. A child becomes a better reader when they read more, according to research, and the opposite is true also. Those children with poor reading skills are usually the ones who struggle to read. 

Your child's teacher is who you should talk with. Hi-lo readers (high-interest, low readability) such as comics, mysteries, riddles, jokes, sports, and hobbies can be found in either book stores or libraries and are especially helpful if your child is not reading at the correct grade level. Speak to the educator about recommendations. 

3. Find A Different Way To Present Books

Look for comic books or magazines you believe your child would enjoy reading. Hand it to them as a gift. "I remember how fascinated you are about airplanes. I figured you would be interested in looking at this WWII book about bombers." Use the phrase "look over it" instead of the word "read" and you will get a similar result. Encourage your older child to read a story for younger siblings. 

"Do you mind reading a story to Jay and have him read it afterward? He needs a more advanced reader to lend an ear to him." Play reading-based games. Include games that involve reading board spaces, trivia games, spelling games, and card games that come with instructions. 

4. Use Other Means To Reading

Discover sets and models that have to be put together by reading instructions. Thus providing a great opportunity to teach them how to follow directions as well as sequencing and prediction. You can also use music lyrics, labels, menus, and road signs to read and discuss. You can watch a movie made from a book that your child read in school or at home, attend a sports event, or go for a visit to an art gallery or museum to increase reading experiences. 

Make time for reading throughout your day. You can use a few minutes just about anywhere, such as before bed, after bathtime, or following your dinner. 

5. Read And Do More Reading

Allow your child to see you reading and discuss your opinion on the article or story. "I came across this story about Michael Jordan." Where you aware that for three consecutive years, he didn't make the basketball team? Once I finish, you can have the magazine. It's a good story." Your child needs you to read with and to them. 

Your child will pick up the literacy skills they need when you read with them. Many things can be learned such as comprehension, inflection (when you change the tone or pitch of voice),  fluency, and vocabulary. When you read, ask such questions as "What do you expect to happen next?" What do you think will be the end of the story? Which part of the story did you like best? Do you have a favorite character; Why? 

6. Make It A Family Thing

Create a night where the family can get together to discuss the book(s) they are reading. Everyone brings something they enjoy such as a joke, an interesting fact, a human interest story, a bit of trivia, part of a newspaper, comic, magazine, or even a book when they get together. Say something to inspire your child like, "That is extremely interesting!" Let me know what happens once you finish that book... I wasn't aware of that; what else can you tell me?... That joke is hilarious! You should read even more." If your child isn't fond of a book they are reading, don't make them read it. 

The other choices available are endless. While it is always good to limit watching television, especially so that you can allow time dedicated to reading books, The use of video games or television as either a punishment for not reading or a reward for reading is never a good idea. 

There are several ways to help your child who doesn't like to read for pleasure get motivated. You can begin helping your child to enjoy reading for pleasure after you have discovered the reason why they do not enjoy reading. Your child will only become discouraged if you set unrealistic goals, demand, bribe, or nag them. We have explored several ways to help motivate your child's reading for pleasure in this article. We went over how to lower your child's anxiety first, as well as the use of technology. 

We discussed using alternative ways to read next. Afterwards, we covered reading and more reading then finished by discovering multiple ways to present books. You now have the tools needed to motivate your child in reading for pleasure from reading this article. You should start now. 