If it does not work out, what then? What if it will not work out? Have you heard any of these questions before? You're not by yourself. Many people worry about everything -- from worrying about doing something unsatisfactory to worrying about others who are doing better than them. Some worry over the happiness of others, over others being upset with them,  or even letting others down. Your physical and emotional health are negatively affected when you  
expect something bad to happen all the time, or are constantly worrying and being negative. Thirty-eight percent of folks worry about one thing or another like a presentation they have to give, or a job interview. 

Also, when two thousand millennials were surveyed the time the average person was stressed out and worried was equal to sixty-three days a year. Those two months that you spent worrying are lost. It's normal for people to doubt, worry, and feel anxious. You should make the effort to spend less time worrying because you are constantly worrying about your responsibilities, commitments, and what you may have contributed to the many facets of your life.  

1. Find Your Stop-Loss Point

A stock trading investor will use a strategy called stop-loss to exit a trade that is losing, they have a set price level on each trade where they will exit. The premise of the stop-loss plan is to limit how much mental turmoil you will allow once you decide how much the things you are concerned about are worth to you. Is squandering your psychological energy something you want to continue doing? Pause and ask yourself where your stop-loss point is when you notice you are in a circle of anxiety and worry and how long is it going to take to give it up? 

You become aware of each thing occupying your mind and select what you want to focus on rather than digging a deeper hole because you refuse to allow worry control over you by giving each one a limit. It is how you teach your brain to worry less. 

2. Write Your Worries Down

Writing down your worries acknowledges them and removes them from your thoughts. Quick fixes don't usually come from worrying. Write down your worries to get them out of your head. You will feel less tense and more at ease when you write your worries down, almost like removing them from your brain. As you write your worries down, you are taking the time to acknowledge that they do exist. 

Figure out the root cause of your issues and worries. Realizing the important things that worry you helps you figure out what it takes to solve them. Concentrate on the things you can change or solve instead of focusing on the things you can't possibly change. 

3. Take Action

Focus your attention on the small actions and daily routines that can solve the issues rather than getting stuck on the larger issues that feel overwhelming. Be driven and take charge of the things you have control in. Establish a plan of action for your worries and work on doing them on a daily, weekly, or monthly basis. To solve your problem, do something each day that is a step toward your goal. 

Accept your worries and think of what you'll do in worst-case scenarios. Taking actions on things that are in your control is the focus of this process. It pushes you to look for solutions to your worries. 

4. Interrupt The Worry Cycle

Work on productive activities that keep your mind occupied when you find yourself excessively worrying. Always, stay busy. Because endorphins are released during exercise, this is a natural way to enhance your sense of well-being and boost energy, as well as releasing stress and tension; so get out there and move. Doing something totally unrelated allows you to distract yourself and concentrate on something different. 

Reading a really good book or engaging in a hobby you love is a really good way to do this. Without judging or reacting to your worries think about them and see them from the perspective of an outsider. The approach is to take a look at what your worries are and let them go so you can get in touch with yourself and identify the root of the problems. 

You can change the way you look at your worries by knowing that you have total control over your thoughts. It will be a life-changing catalyst when you can learn to stop worrying. This will be something that will take time and effort because it doesn't happen all at once but once you're aware of changes pat yourself on the back and keep it up.  Worrying about family, money, work, and health are things most folks spend time worrying about. 

People often worry about what if things don't go as planned. Your body's response is consistent, regardless of the kind of worrying you have. You should always seek professional advice when you feel that you are not able to control your worrying. Don't let your worries get the best of you. 