While in severe economic depression and recession, our country is still extremely wealthy. We consider mountains of wood and paper waste and just burn them daily. The beauty of the countryside scenery is currently being littered with countless tin and metal wastes that are more than enough to encircle the Earth. You can take pride in cutting down the national vice of waste and saving money that you are not able to spare when you can use something that would normally just be thrown away. 

In this article, you will discover a few familiar objects you discard in your day-to-day life, which you can still reuse to make your life convenient or recycling. 

1. Bags 

Paper sacks can be useful in other ways, aside from their general use. You can also fasten it at the back of your front seat as a convenient wastepaper basket in your car. This should remove the temptation for your children to just toss their trash on the floor. If someone is sick at home with a cold or the likes, you can secure a bag on one side of the bed to have a used cleansing tissue bin handy and avoid scattering the germs. 

To clean your reusable vacuum cleaner bag easily and quickly, put it into an extra-large paper sack and shake off the dirt from it. To keep the dust out when you are rolling up a rug, cover it with paper, then add heavy paper bags over the ends. 

2. Bottle Cap

You can use the bottle cap to patch dents. Can you find dents and scratches in your wooded table? Place a wet cloth over the dented spot. Then, place the metal bottle cap at the table over the dent with the scalloped edge facing upward, not downward. Lightly press the very tip of a hot iron against the center of the cap. Repair your plunger, "aka plumber's helper," by using a bottle cap. 

If the rubber at the end of the plunger keeps slipping off, tighten it into the handle by nailing a metal bottle cap at the end and pushing it into the rubber plunger to make it fit. 

3. Coat Hangers

Coat hangers have so many uses that people are inclined to write about them. As the wire ones will eventually rust, we will not recommend them for something so ridiculous as using them for trellises or fences. But they're flexible enough to be converted into trouser hangers by just tweaking the ends together and running a belt strap through each side end, pinching on both ends and bending the top wire upward can serve as skirt hangers with the help of some safety pins. Nothing beats a straightened coat hanger to clean and remove something wedged inside your vacuum-cleaner tube when you have no available stiff wire to use. 

You can always redneck together a drying rack for socks, stockings, and other small laundry items using two coat hangers to lash things like cake racks or discarded refrigerator shelving together. You can then conveniently hang them in a closet rod or a shower rod, which is excellent in cramped apartment spaces. 

4. Fruit Crates

Carpenters can make several different objects out of these versatile wooden items. There are plenty of other ways to use them if you're not handy. You can use the sectional ones to set up temporary cabinets in a corner, as storage for cleaning supplies under the sink, or as canned goods shelving. You can fasten a small curtain rod with a cup hook or small nail across the front to hang a drawstring curtain over the front to hide the contents from view. 

You can turn your fruit crate with shelves into an eye-catching piece of furniture like a bookshelf; stain it with varnish, then cover it with different paper mementos that you have collected from your life, and then protect it with a coat of shellac. 

5. Milk Cartons 

Just like coat hangers, milk cartons can also be used for many different things. For a short time, some foods can be kept in one that has been thoroughly washed out in the freezer. To save yourself from constantly washing and deodorizing regular containers for odoriferous foods like fish, you can use milk boxes, cut in lengthwise, to store these food items instead. They make wonderful seed flats when you cut them lengthwise. 

When your young plants are ready to be transplanted into the garden; it is simple to move them. Also, you can make excellent plant collars for your tomato plants by cutting milk cartons crosswise; this is best in keeping cutworms away. You should sow thinly when doing this. Also, you can make excellent plant collars for your tomato plants by cutting milk cartons crosswise; this is best in keeping cutworms away. 

6. Newspaper 

Old newspapers can be reused as a cleaning aid- isn't that some good news? If you have nothing to use for cleaning your windows, grab some newspapers for the job -- use wet newspaper lumps for swabbing clean and polish it with dry ones. When cleaning radiators, place damp newspapers underneath to catch the dirt as you brush it off. If the bag from your vacuum cleaner will not fit into a large paper bag to empty it, shake it out over a damp newspaper. When defrosting your refrigerator, line the top shelf under the defrosting tray with newspaper to prevent having to mop up a mess later; just be sure to remove it when you are finished so that it does not insulate the cold away from your food. 

You can protect many things using newspaper. During transportation, you can wrap wet newspaper around the roots of a plant to keep the air away or around the stems of a bouquet to keep them fresh. Avoid dampening yourself and your car by wrapping it up with a large plastic vegetable bag. When you do not have a waterproof bed cover for a child or patient's bed, use 24 double pages of newspaper wrapped in muslin. 

7. Rancid Grease 

Did you know that you can make a laundry soap out of accumulated drippings, grease, or a combination of both? To have 2 quarts of strained melted fat, collect 5 pounds of grease. Measure the fat after straining through cheesecloth. Pour a one-pound can of lye into a quart of water while the grease cools down. An earthenware or a stone jar is the best to use for this and make sure to pour and stir carefully using a wooden or stick spoon, not a metal one. Since lye is a powerful alkali, make sure not to splash on anything, including yourself. 

In an earthenware or enamel container, slowly pour the completely dissolved lye mix over the cooled grease. Continuously stir the new mixture until everything is combined. Dissolve 2 tablespoons of borax in 1/2 cup of water, then add 1/2 cup of household ammonia into the lye-and-grease mixture. Keep on stirring until thick to achieve a similar consistency of a thin pudding or honey. Allow the mixture to harden for several hours after pouring into a mold made of earthenware or granite. Before it gets too hard, cut the square into soap cakes or bars. Allow the cakes of soap to harden around 6 weeks in a dry place. The soap will continue to harden with age; the older the soap is, the longer it will last. 

8. Tea

Cold tea, specifically black tea, can soothe sunburn due to its tannic acid content. If you have tired eyes, it can also be a perfect soothing poultice. Lie down, then place a piece of absorbent cotton that has been dipped into strong cold tea over closed eyelids for 15 minutes. As a substitution, use tea bags that have been lightly squeezed out. 

Tea leaves are reputed as an excellent fertilizer for house plants. Strong tea is also useful when starching dark-colored materials, and it will help prevent the white film from showing on the cloth once added into the starch solution. Using a tea-dipped cloth for wiping varnished furniture and surfaces is also recommended. 

9. Toothbrush

If you are looking for an excellent cleaner, then look no further than your old toothbrush! It can be used to clean lint from parts of the sewing machine or dust off the typewriter keys. You can scrub the raised pattern on your flatware clean using a soft toothbrush. To make your cut glass pieces sparkly shine, use an old toothbrush with suds and some ammonia. 

It is perfect for dusting hard to reach corners. With the help of a handy-dandy old toothbrush, hard-to-get-at crevices in your stove burners and waffle irons are a problem no more. On top of that, it is useful in removing mud from the edges of your shoes and boots. 

10. Towels

Before washing fragile glassware, it is best to place an old towel in the bottom of your dishpan. You can also place another one in the drainboard before putting washed glasses on it. For old towels that are just a little bit worn out at the edge, stitch it over or rebind it. To reuse towels that are already worn out in the center, cut up the good sections, then hem it to use as dishcloths, washcloths, pot holders, etc. 

You can sew a shower mitt with a pocket for placing chips of soap. Or, making a bag out of it for your hot water bottle is another great idea! 

The idea of reuse is as straightforward as it sounds. Find another use for an item rather than tossing it away. Regardless of being as large as a building or as small as a button anything can be reused. You can save both the environment and your pocketbook at the same time when you practice reuse. 

It just might be the right time to think like your grandmother when you next need to fix something or get something. Be creative, be practical, be Earth-friendly, and check out your local repair, rental, consignment, or vintage shops! 