Has it ever occurred to you that even with the recent economic slump and recession, our country seems to continue consuming a lot? Thousands of wood and mounds of paper wastes are burned each day. The beautiful countryside is being destroyed by the littered waste of enough tin cans to circle the globe. You can take pride in cutting down the national vice of waste and saving money that you are not able to spare when you can use something that would normally just be thrown away. 

In this article, you will discover a few familiar objects you discard in your day-to-day life, which you can still reuse to make your life convenient or recycling. 

1. Bags 

Paper sacks can be useful in other ways, aside from their general use. You can also fasten it at the back of your front seat as a convenient wastepaper basket in your car. This should remove the temptation for your children to just toss their trash on the floor. If someone is sick at home with a cold or the likes, you can secure a bag on one side of the bed to have a used cleansing tissue bin handy and avoid scattering the germs. 

To quickly and easily empty the cloth bag on your vacuum cleaner, shake it out over a larger paper sack. To keep the dust out when you are rolling up a rug, cover it with paper, then add heavy paper bags over the ends. 

2. Bottle Cap

You can use the bottle cap to patch dents. Does your wooden table have a dent in it? First, use a wet cloth to cover the dented area. Then, place the metal bottle cap at the table over the dent with the scalloped edge facing upward, not downward. Use a hot iron's tip to press the center of the cap lightly. You can also make use of a bottle cap as a plunger's "washer." 

If the rubber at the end of the plunger keeps slipping off, tighten it into the handle by nailing a metal bottle cap at the end and pushing it into the rubber plunger to make it fit. 

3. Coat Hangers

Coat hangers have so many uses that people are inclined to write about them. We don't recommend using wire hangers to make trellises and fences because they get rusted easily. But they're flexible enough to be converted into trouser hangers by just tweaking the ends together and running a belt strap through each side end, pinching on both ends and bending the top wire upward can serve as skirt hangers with the help of some safety pins. Nothing beats a straightened coat hanger to clean and remove something wedged inside your vacuum-cleaner tube when you have no available stiff wire to use. 

You can always redneck together a drying rack for socks, stockings, and other small laundry items using two coat hangers to lash things like cake racks or discarded refrigerator shelving together. Keep your hangers handy in an apartment with limited space; you can place them in the closet or on the shower rod in the bathroom. 

4. Fruit Crates

Carpenters can make several different objects out of these versatile wooden items. There are plenty of other ways to use them if you're not handy. You can use the sectional ones to set up temporary cabinets in a corner, as storage for cleaning supplies under the sink, or as canned goods shelving. You can then fasten a drawstring curtain on a spring curtain rod and anchor each end with a cup hook or a small nail across the front of the fruit crate cabinet to hide the contents. 

You can turn your fruit crate with shelves into an eye-catching piece of furniture like a bookshelf; stain it with varnish, then cover it with different paper mementos that you have collected from your life, and then protect it with a coat of shellac. 

5. Milk Cartons 

Like coat hangers, empty milk cartons can be turned into many other things. For a short time, some foods can be kept in one that has been thoroughly washed out in the freezer. To save yourself from constantly washing and deodorizing regular containers for odoriferous foods like fish, you can use milk boxes, cut in lengthwise, to store these food items instead. You can do the same lengthwise cut to create seed flats for your home gardening. 

This will provide an easy time when transplanting saplings in your garden. You can place the plant down into the soil with the sides of the carton still intact, just cut off the bottom of the carton first. You should sow thinly when doing this. Also, you can make excellent plant collars for your tomato plants by cutting milk cartons crosswise; this is best in keeping cutworms away. 

6. Newspaper 

A wonderful aid to clean with is the newspaper. When you have nothing else around you can do many things with newspapers; clean your windows, polish with dry newspaper, and swab with wet ones. When brushing your radiators clean, putting a damp newspaper under it will catch and hold down flying dust. Similarly, a dampened newspaper can be used in place of a paper bag to catch vacuum cleaner dirt. When defrosting your refrigerator, line the top shelf under the defrosting tray with newspaper to prevent having to mop up a mess later; just be sure to remove it when you are finished so that it does not insulate the cold away from your food. 

Newspapers can also serve as a protective agent. During transportation, you can wrap wet newspaper around the roots of a plant to keep the air away or around the stems of a bouquet to keep them fresh. Avoid dampening yourself and your car by wrapping it up with a large plastic vegetable bag. When you do not have a waterproof bed cover for a child or patient's bed, use 24 double pages of newspaper wrapped in muslin. 

7. Rancid Grease 

Did you know that you can make a laundry soap out of accumulated drippings, grease, or a combination of both? To have 2 quarts of strained melted fat, collect 5 pounds of grease. Measure the fat after straining through cheesecloth. Add a single 1-pound can of lye to a quart of water as the grease is cooling. An earthenware or a stone jar is the best to use for this and make sure to pour and stir carefully using a wooden or stick spoon, not a metal one. Since lye is a powerful alkali, make sure not to splash on anything, including yourself. 

In an earthenware or enamel container, slowly pour the completely dissolved lye mix over the cooled grease. Continuously stir the new mixture until everything is combined. Add to this 2 tablespoons of borax dissolved in 1/2 cup of water and 1/2 cup of household ammonia. Keep on stirring until thick to achieve a similar consistency of a thin pudding or honey. Once done, pour the mixture into a clay or granite mold and let it solidify for a few hours. Before it gets too hard, cut the square into soap cakes or bars. Allow the cakes of soap to harden around 6 weeks in a dry place. As the soap gets older, it lasts longer and gets harder with age. 

8. Tea

Cold tea, specifically black tea, can soothe sunburn due to its tannic acid content. If you have tired eyes, it can also be a perfect soothing poultice. Lie down, then place a piece of absorbent cotton that has been dipped into strong cold tea over closed eyelids for 15 minutes. As a substitution, use tea bags that have been lightly squeezed out. 

Tea leaves are reputed as an excellent fertilizer for house plants. By adding a little bit of strong tea to a starching solution, you can prevent the white film that forms on the surface of dark cloth. Using a tea-dipped cloth for wiping varnished furniture and surfaces is also recommended. 

9. Toothbrush

If you are looking for an excellent cleaner, then look no further than your old toothbrush! You can use this handy little cleaner to dust clean and lint out your typewriter keys and sewing-machine parts. You can scrub the raised pattern on your flatware clean using a soft toothbrush. To make your cut glass pieces sparkly shine, use an old toothbrush with suds and some ammonia. 

It is perfect for dusting hard to reach corners. To clean those hard to reach crevices on the burners to your stove and the waffle iron. On top of that, it is useful in removing mud from the edges of your shoes and boots. 

10. Towels

Before washing fragile glassware, it is best to place an old towel in the bottom of your dishpan. Before you place the glasses on the drainboard, place another one there. For old towels that are just a little bit worn out at the edge, stitch it over or rebind it. You can cut up towels that have become worn in the center, then just hem or bind the good pieces for use as dishcloths, washcloths, or potholders. 

You can also come up with something creative like sewing it into a mitt form with soap chips pocket for your shower or bathroom. Or, making a bag out of it for your hot water bottle is another great idea! 

The idea of reuse is as straightforward as it sounds. Find another use for an item rather than tossing it away. Regardless of being as large as a building or as small as a button anything can be reused. You can save both the environment and your pocketbook at the same time when you practice reuse. 

So, start thinking like your Granny the next time you need to have something fixed or need to buy some items. Be creative, be practical, be Earth-friendly, and check out your local repair, rental, consignment, or vintage shops! 