Researches have proven that reading daily to your toddlers and preschoolers will help build and improve their vocabulary. Reading with your child offers many benefits and advantages. Reading will help a child understand how to read and write and enhance their vocabulary and when you read aloud to a child you assist them in learning topics from everyday life and about the world. 

Read on to learn why it's important to read with your children. 

1. Reading Develops Language Skills

Though you talk to your children every day, the vocabulary you use with them is often repetitive and limited. Reading exposes your child to words and phrases covering different subject matters. This exposes them to vocabulary that may not be included in their everyday lives. They are better off when they know more words. 

Reading is a simple way to improve language skills and develop fluency, especially for a child who speaks more than one language. Reading is important in honing these skills. 

2. Encourages A Thirst For Knowledge

Your children will start to ask questions about books and the information they contain when you read to them. This allows you an opportunity for a learning experience to talk about what is going on around them. Their interest in different languages and cultures is also cultivated. It brings joy to see your child enjoying the process of learning. Your children will start to ask questions on the topics you are reading about when you read to them. 

Strive to expose your child to books and other reading materials with diverse topics. Reading will encourage your child's interest in areas that they normally would not be exposed to, and is also a wonderful opportunity for them to learn several new things. 

3. Teaches Children About Different Topics

Just how important it is to read a wide diversity of books should never be overlooked. Exposing your child to books with diverse topics or even in different languages for bilingual kids, helps them absorb more information. Select a variety of books to read. Let your child read various educational books about places, animals, and objects. 

Some important life skills like diversity, being kind, and sharing can be taught through other books. A wonderful gift is giving one of the amazing personalized books. 

4. Develops A Child's Imagination

Watching a child's imagination grow is a wonderful benefit of reading with your child. Reading allows your child to visualize the characters of the book. We tend to view the setting as a reality. One of the most beautiful things to watch is the excitement in a child's eyes when they already have a hunch on what comes next in the story, or letting them guess what will happen. 

Ask your kid to tell you the story or guess what happens next. It will stimulate and nurture your child's imagination and will encourage them to think outside the box. 

5. Books Are A Form Of Entertainment

It is difficult not to be all caught up in the technology hype around us these days. Children are drawn to smartphones, video games, television, and apps. Keep in mind that reading books that your child finds interesting can be just as fun. Help lessen the negative impact of too much screen time by reading compelling books with your child or just letting your child flip through pages. 

One of the best benefits of how essential reading with babies and toddlers is, kids will choose to pick up a book and read for pleasure instead of any other activity. Encouraging your kids to make reading a habit at a very young age will tend to choose reading books rather than other activities when they're bored. 

6. Creates A Bond

Nothing beats spending your time cuddling up to your child while reading a book or a bedtime story. Parents can grow closer to their children when they read, talk, and spend time together. Even if parents have a hectic schedule, it is still possible for them to relax and de-stress by spending some time reading with their kids. You can strengthen your parent-child relationship by spending more time with your child. 

One of the best ways to spend quality, one-on-one time with your child is through reading together during the day or bedtime. Talking about a book together with your child is an excellent opportunity to discover each other's thoughts, feelings, likes, and dislikes, and spending time with them shows them how valuable they are to you. Doing so also helps boost your child's self-confidence and self-worth. 

7. Develops Empathy

When a child develops empathic feelings, you can also see another reason why reading is essential. Something like this happens when a child can place himself in the story. They can relate to the characters and feel how they feel. It happens as children learn to relate to and understand emotions. The development of a child's ability to empathize takes quite a long time and not until they are around six or seven years old that they start to understand the feelings of other people. 

One of the ways children can learn about feelings is by reading books. Discussing how and why the characters in a story might be feeling, helps your child learn how to empathize. 

8. Sets Them Up For Success

Your children will gain more knowledge about life in general if you read to them more often. Based on several studies, babies and toddlers have a headstart for school and later on when you read to them. By reading to your child, you help them learn the skills they need in starting to read by themselves. Reading words on a page from left to right and turning pages are essential pre-reading skills that children must learn even before they start school. 

When a child enjoys reading, they do well in all of the different subjects, not just in language and literacy. 

9. Promotes Brain Health

Stimulate your child's brain and help them boost their early reading skills by reading to them as often as you can. Studies show that reading to infants and toddlers at home plays an essential role in boosting functions in specific areas of the brain. Your child's language development significantly depends on these areas. Reading to young children helps boost specific areas of the brain, which are essential for language development. 

Being read to at an early age helps children learn how to speak, read, and communicate. Children will excel in language, literacy, as well as all other subjects if they enjoy reading. 

10. Enhances Concentration

Reading with infants and toddlers is crucial, so don't worry if they seem to be interested only in flipping pages, swapping books, or throwing them around. You can help your child sit still for long periods and learn to concentrate when you read to them daily, this will help them later on in school. To start, make reading sessions with your child short to help them enjoy the process more and eventually keep them interested in reading for a longer time. 

They will enjoy talking to you about the pictures and listening to the voices you make. This will help them when they start school because it increases their ability to concentrate. 

During the critical early development of your child's communication and literacy skills, the best, and most influential, tool available to parents is to read aloud. You open your child's mind up to a larger and exciting world when you expose your child to wonderful new experiences. You encourage your child in forming a positive association with books when you stimulate your child's imagination. Your child should regard reading as engaging, fun, entertaining, and enjoyable to spark their love for books and avidity to read. 

You can do more harm than good if your child believes that you are determined to make them learn and become discouraged and stubborn. Keep in mind that listening is gradually acquired art. When your child is primed for it, discussing different topics will spark new curiosity about their environment and will expand their thirst for knowledge as well. 