Although there doesn't seem to be a reason for it, eighteen to twenty-six percent of American adults experience shoulder pain even though it is the most flexible joint in the whole body. There is a multitude of factors that can cause pain in the shoulders. If you overwork your shoulders at the gym with minimal time for recovery to balance the overuse, your shoulders might experience a wearing away. If you work at a desk job, you could experience shoulder pain due to a lack of motion if you are hunched over your computer all day. 

If your job routine requires you to carry things frequently, that can also cause it. Having shoulder pain gives rise to neck pain, difficulty breathing, and bad posture. 

1.  Standing Wall Stretch

If you want to loosen tight shoulders, try this stretch. After hunkering down over your desk all day, this stretch is particularly good. To reduce any risk of injuring your shoulder, be careful not to raise your arms too high on the wall. Here is how to do a standing stretch against the wall: 

With your feet hip-distance apart, stand about two feet in front of the wall. Put your hands in front of you on the wall, and as you lower your chest to the wall, hinging at the hip, send your butt back. To deepen the stretch, hold for at least three breaths and then repeat. 

2. Front To Side Shoulder Raises

This exercise, the shoulder raise targets the side and front deltoids. This is done in one fluid motion. Don't forget to keep your arms as straight as you can the whole time. How to carry out front to side raises of the shoulders: 

While standing, place your feet about hip-distance away from each other. In each hand, hold a pair of dumbells with your palms facing downward. Lift the dumbells directly in front of your chest, with straight arms keeping your torso still. Lower the dumbells, then lift them to your sides, so they are parallel to the floor, bending the elbows slightly. Lower to the starting position and repeat the process. 

3. Steering Wheel

"Car drivers" is what the next exercise is called. Your front shoulder muscles are strengthened by steering wheel exercise. While improving your range of motion, you can relieve tension while doing this. How steering wheels are done: 

Stand up and place your feet hip-distance away from each other while holding a dumbbell in each hand, extend your arms straight out in front of you with palms facing each other. Turn the dumbbell to one side, and then turn it to the other side like a steering wheel. Keep doing this exercise for six to twelve times. 

4. Shoulder Circles

To improve your shoulders' range of motion, do this exercise. It strengthens the joints for pulling doors open and for lifting heavy bags of groceries. It's also a great stretch to ease tension in the muscles during the day and before the workout. How shoulder circles should be done: 

Raise your arms over your head with your fingers toward the ceiling, shoulder-distance apart. Bring your arms forward and rotate them back to your sides. This counts as one repetition. 

5. Loaded Beast

This exercise is like a child's pose progression. For a child's pose, it would be best to keep your knees lifted off the floor. It uses your core to stabilize your hips as they are pressed back against your heels. How a loaded beast is done: 

While on a yoga mat, get in the high plank position and make sure your shoulders are over your wrists. Press your hips against your heels and, at the same time, keep your knees off of the floor several inches. If you want to deepen the stretch, try moving your head away from your hands. After that, bring your legs and arms back to the plank position. This is considered one repetition. 

6. Pike Plank Walks

Utilizing your core helps to strengthen your upper body and the pike plank walk is an example of this. The pike plank walk requires you to utilize your legs, abs, and shoulders. To keep your body from sagging to the sides and keep a straight line, you need to engage all three. This is how pike plank walks are done: 

With your right forearm stacked in front of the left one, get into the plank position. While you keep your hips in a stationary position, put your right forearm under your left and then reverse until you drive your butt upwards toward the ceiling as high as you can. Then you can walk your forearms back to the top of the mat and return to the position you started in. 

7. Side Planks

This exercise opens up your shoulders, and your love handles, also known as your obliques, will get plenty of attention too. The clue to perfecting this exercise is to keep your hips in a straight line and square. Twist your body's trunk. This is how to do side planks: Lie down on the yoga mat on your right side. 

Place your left leg on top of your right while pressing your forearm into the mat, lift your body. Straighten your left arm and stretch it towards the ceiling. Keep your legs and feet where they are while compressing your inner thighs, place your left arm beneath your torso, and bring it up towards the ceiling. This is one repetition. Repeat this exercise on the opposite side. 

8. Scapular Push-Ups

When the upper body's function is limited, scapular winging occurs. When this function is limited, it can stop you from pushing heavy objects, lifting, and pulling things. However, scapular push-ups help the wing by strengthening your shoulders and back. This is how scapular push-ups are done: 

With your shoulders right over your wrists, get into the high plank position. Pretend there's a ball in the middle of your shoulder blades, push your shoulder blades towards each other as if you were gripping the ball. Then, in the direction of the mat, lower your body until your arms are at a 45-degree angle. 

9. Child's Pose

One of the best shoulder openers is the classic yoga pose, which looks simple. It also helps the spine to lengthen. It will also make you more aware of your core. How the child's pose is done: 

While on the yoga mat, bring your body to the tabletop position with your hands the same distance apart as your shoulders. As you bring your big toes together, spread your knees as far apart as your hips are. Push your hips onto your heels with straightened arms, and reach your palms towards the top area of the mat. If you want to deepen the stretch, you can use a yoga block beneath each hand. While taking at least three breaths, hold this pose. 

10. Underhand Shoulder Retraction

It's simple to work your arm muscles by doing this exercise. Your arm muscles, including your biceps, are targeted when you use an underhanded grip. To avoid any needless injuries, always stretch your muscles both before and after working out. This is how underhand shoulder retractions are done: Grasp a dumbbell in each hand, keep them close together with your palms up, and bend your arms at a ninety-degree angle. 

Push your shoulder blades together, keep your arms bent at a ninety-degree angle and your sides until your forearms are parallel to the floor. Then, return your arms to the beginning position. This is considered one repetition. 

Shoulder pain can be reduced by making your upper body stronger, improving your range of motion, and stretching tight muscles. Your shoulders are not supposed to carry most of the load but to support the larger muscle groups. When the muscles of your back, chest, arms, and core are strong, they'll work together safely and effectively to complete a movement. It is vital to use the proper form when doing the exercises for your shoulders. 

If you do not engage your abdominals while doing heavy shoulder presses, you may hurt your shoulder and back, which also risks your spine health. To avoid any injuries, plan on warming up before working out. Is one of these exercises best works for you? 