While in severe economic depression and recession, our country is still extremely wealthy. Thousands of wood and mounds of paper wastes are burned each day. The beauty of the countryside scenery is currently being littered with countless tin and metal wastes that are more than enough to encircle the Earth. Making use of something you usually throw away is one of the best feelings you can be proud of, not only the pride of saving some cash but more so of helping the country recycle and reduce its top concern, which is waste. 

Whether to make life easier or craft a useful object, you can use the everyday items listed below that would normally be tossed away. 

1. Bags 

Paper sacks can be useful in other ways, aside from their general use. You can also fasten it at the back of your front seat as a convenient wastepaper basket in your car. It will help the children not to get tempted to litter. If someone is sick at home with a cold or the likes, you can secure a bag on one side of the bed to have a used cleansing tissue bin handy and avoid scattering the germs. 

To clean your reusable vacuum cleaner bag easily and quickly, put it into an extra-large paper sack and shake off the dirt from it. To keep the dust out when you are rolling up a rug, cover it with paper, then add heavy paper bags over the ends. 

2. Bottle Cap

You can use the bottle cap to patch dents. Does your wooden table have a dent in it? First, use a wet cloth to cover the dented area. Then, place the metal bottle cap at the table over the dent with the scalloped edge facing upward, not downward. Use a hot iron's tip to press the center of the cap lightly. You can also make use of a bottle cap as a plunger's "washer." 

If the rubber at the end of the plunger keeps slipping off, tighten it into the handle by nailing a metal bottle cap at the end and pushing it into the rubber plunger to make it fit. 

3. Coat Hangers

Coat hangers have so many uses that people are inclined to write about them. As the wire ones will eventually rust, we will not recommend them for something so ridiculous as using them for trellises or fences. You will, however, find them adaptable to forming a skirt hanger by pinching the ends and curving up the wire to hang the skirt by safety pins and to create a trouser hanger by pinching the ends, then to slip through the belt loops. Nothing beats a straightened coat hanger to clean and remove something wedged inside your vacuum-cleaner tube when you have no available stiff wire to use. 

And with just a little tweak, you can create a hanging rack for drying your socks, stockings, and other tiny pieces of laundry using a discarded cake rack or a refrigerator shelf rack strapped to a coat hanger at each end. You can then conveniently hang them in a closet rod or a shower rod, which is excellent in cramped apartment spaces. 

4. Fruit Crates

Carpenters can make several different objects out of these versatile wooden items. They still have practical uses even for other people without skills. Make shelved cabinets for storing canned food items, cleaning materials under the sink, or a temporary corner emergency cabinet by using upended sectioned fruit crates. You can then fasten a drawstring curtain on a spring curtain rod and anchor each end with a cup hook or a small nail across the front of the fruit crate cabinet to hide the contents. 

You can your fruit cake and think of a bookcase, turn it using a shellacked of mementos and memorabilia like menus and dance programs on the area of the crate-turned-bookcase. 

5. Milk Cartons 

Just like coat hangers, milk cartons can also be used for many different things. After washing them thoroughly, use them as a container for foods stored shortly in the freezer of your fridge. By cutting containers lengthwise, you can save your regular containers from needing to be scrubbed and sanitized from strong odors, like fish. You can do the same lengthwise cut to create seed flats for your home gardening. 

This will provide an easy time when transplanting saplings in your garden. You can place the plant down into the soil with the sides of the carton still intact, just cut off the bottom of the carton first. You should sow thinly when doing this. Also, you can make excellent plant collars for your tomato plants by cutting milk cartons crosswise; this is best in keeping cutworms away. 

6. Newspaper 

A wonderful aid to clean with is the newspaper. If you have nothing to use for cleaning your windows, grab some newspapers for the job -- use wet newspaper lumps for swabbing clean and polish it with dry ones. When brushing your radiators clean, putting a damp newspaper under it will catch and hold down flying dust. Similarly, a dampened newspaper can be used in place of a paper bag to catch vacuum cleaner dirt. When defrosting your refrigerator, line the top shelf under the defrosting tray with newspaper to prevent having to mop up a mess later; just be sure to remove it when you are finished so that it does not insulate the cold away from your food. 

Newspapers can also serve as a protecting agent. To keep the freshness of gift bouquets during travel, wrapping a wet newspaper around the stems will do the trick; you can also do the same for plant roots to protect them against the air. If you need to keep both yourself and your car dry and protected, wrap up the wet bundle in a large plastic vegetable bag. When you do not have a waterproof bed cover for a child or patient's bed, use 24 double pages of newspaper wrapped in muslin. 

7. Rancid Grease 

You can make laundry soap from accumulated drippings or grease. To have 2 quarts of strained melted fat, collect 5 pounds of grease. Measure the fat after straining through cheesecloth. Add a single 1-pound can of lye to a quart of water as the grease is cooling. Cautiously pour this into an earthenware container or stone jar, and stir it with only a wooden spoon or stick, do not use metal. Since lye is a powerful alkali, make sure not to splash on anything, including yourself. 

In an earthenware or enamel container, slowly pour the completely dissolved lye mix over the cooled grease. Continuously stir the new mixture until everything is combined. Dissolve 2 tablespoons of borax in 1/2 cup of water, then add 1/2 cup of household ammonia into the lye-and-grease mixture. Then stir until it reaches the consistency of thin pudding or honey. Allow the mixture to harden for several hours after pouring into a mold made of earthenware or granite. Before it gets too hard, cut the square into soap cakes or bars. Allow the cakes of soap to harden around 6 weeks in a dry place. As the soap gets older, it lasts longer and gets harder with age. 

8. Tea

Cold tea, specifically black tea, can soothe sunburn due to its tannic acid content. If you have tired eyes, it can also be a perfect soothing poultice. Just get some absorbent cotton and dip into the strong cold tea, then apply it on closed eyelids for not less than 15 minutes. Teabags that are just slightly squeezed-out are a good substitute. 

You can also fertilize house plants with tea leaves. Strong tea is also useful when starching dark-colored materials, and it will help prevent the white film from showing on the cloth once added into the starch solution. Using a tea-dipped cloth for wiping varnished furniture and surfaces is also recommended. 

9. Toothbrush

If you are looking for an excellent cleaner, then look no further than your old toothbrush! You can use this handy little cleaner to dust clean and lint out your typewriter keys and sewing-machine parts. You can use a soft-bristled one for flossing raised patterns on your precious silverware. To make your cut glass pieces sparkly shine, use an old toothbrush with suds and some ammonia. 

Use one when you have corners that are hard to reach when dusting. With the help of a handy-dandy old toothbrush, hard-to-get-at crevices in your stove burners and waffle irons are a problem no more. On top of that, it is useful in removing mud from the edges of your shoes and boots. 

10. Towels

When you are washing delicate glassware, place an old towel down in the dishpan first. Before you place the glasses on the drainboard, place another one there. For old towels that are just a little bit worn out at the edge, stitch it over or rebind it. To reuse towels that are already worn out in the center, cut up the good sections, then hem it to use as dishcloths, washcloths, pot holders, etc. 

You can also come up with something creative like sewing it into a mitt form with soap chips pocket for your shower or bathroom. Or, making a bag out of it for your hot water bottle is another great idea! 

The idea of reuse is as straightforward as it sounds. Find another use for an item rather than tossing it away. Regardless of being as large as a building or as small as a button anything can be reused. You will save money if you reuse, and also a great way to show compassion to Mother Earth. 

So, start thinking like your Granny the next time you need to have something fixed or need to buy some items. Be creative, be practical, be Earth-friendly, and check out your local repair, rental, consignment, or vintage shops! 