While early literacy practices are enjoyable at any age, they are very helpful when teaching children to read. Because these practices are so easy to do just about anywhere, they have an additional advantage. They are so accessible for both parents and caregivers due to their simple language. How to include these beneficial practices into your child's learning is what will be covered in this article. We will go over talking and singing first. 

We will discuss reading next. Writing is what we will cover next, followed by playing. Providing your child with the practices they need to assist them with gaining the skills to become a strong reader will be much easier for you after learning the information contained in this article. To help your child as they learn to read, use these 5 literacy practices. 

1. Playing

While children are playing, they are learning about the world of language. Children have exciting opportunities to increase their vocabulary and imagination when they play. As songs and stories are shared during storytime, the opportunity arises for playing pretend. Children can develop their problem-solving skills and learn how to understand symbolism when they are playing pretend. 

Children can encounter a sense of achievement from playing. They will try more new experiences as their self-confidence grows stronger. As a child acts out a familiar tale, or make stories up of their own, this dramatic play develops their narrative skills. 

2. Writing

Reading development and writing development go together because they support each other. When a child becomes aware that the print is what you are reading, they are developing print awareness. As they start to notice print in the world around them, they begin to understand that it has meaning and represents the spoken word. Scribbling and drawing not only helps to strengthen their fine motor skills but also helps them to grow stronger understanding. It is fairly easy to add simple writing experiences to storytime programs, even though this is not traditional. As soon as a child can hold a marker or thick crayon it becomes time to allow them to draw and write. 

You help a child to develop the understanding that print conveys meaning when you talk with them about what they write and draw. The fine motor control needed to write letters and words is developed while children scribble and draw. Developing this skill requires a lot of practice for a child. 

3. Reading

Reading and sharing books is the groundwork of storytimes. Reading with your child is singlehandedly the best way to get them ready to read. Book sharing contributes significantly to the development of all six early literacy areas with the most apparent gains to narrative skills and vocabulary. Reading aloud fosters not only print motivation but also improves background knowledge and comprehension skills. As you share the book, it is important to discuss what you read with your children. 

Encouraging your child to predict what's going to happen next and connect characters and events will make them get more engaged with the book. A child is most likely to learn to read when they enjoy being read to. Predictably, children have a higher learning achievement when they have shown interest in reading early. When a child participates in shared reading, their vocabulary grows as they are exposed to less commonly used words. It is important for school success that a child can follow the language in books as that language does not normally follow everyday speech patterns. 

4. Singing

Some of the best storytime practices include singing. At the very least a couple of songs are included in most programs, sometimes even more. The literacy skills of vocabulary, phonological awareness, and letter knowledge are supported by singing which is a natural and effective way of developing language. Children hear the different sounds of words more easily when language is slowed by singing. 

Learning how to decode or read words uses this key skill. Using a different note for each syllable is normal in most songs. Children will begin to focus naturally on the individual sounds of words with this support. Children will also listen to the syllables in words as they clap along with rhythms. As a child listens to follow the words and rhythms of a song, they are using singing to develop their listening skills. 

5. Talking

One of the most important ways for a child to develop language is simply by talking with adults. All six areas of a child's early literacy development benefit when you talk with children. Examples are narrative skills, letter knowledge, phonological awareness, print awareness, and print motivation. When you are using storytime programs, just think of all the opportunities you have for talking with your child. To help your young child develop a larger vocabulary, it is important to constantly use new words when you are talking with them. 

They will understand and comprehend what they read later when they know the meanings of many words. When you use talking to increase what your child says naturally, you are helping them to develop language. When a child uses only a word to answer you with, then you should use your language to extend theirs. "What is the puppy going to do now?" is something that you could ask as an example. "Runaway," is the child's answer, you can follow with, "Because the puppy is afraid, yes, he will run away." Children will increase vocabulary and develop narrative skills as they make connections when sharing a book. When you are talking with children you can help them to connect their own experiences to characters and events in a story, or even connect books together, such as a fiction book with a nonfiction book. 

Because the practices for early literacy are simple to do just about anywhere, there is an advantage. They are so easily accessible for caregivers and parents as the language is simple. Early literacy practices are fun for all ages and help children when learning to read. We have provided somethings for your consideration on ways to integrate these practices in a meaningful way into your child's learning experience. Singing, including talking, was covered first. 

We explained how to read next. Writing, followed by playing, was then covered. You will be better able to provide the necessary practices to help your child gain the skills they need for becoming a strong reader as you have now obtained the information you read in this article. 