You can get your keto diet off track with many things, even something as simple as eating a doughnut. Consuming more fats and less carbohydrates is the basic theme of the ketogenic
diet. However, following a diet without bread, sugars, most fruits, potatoes, and beer is difficult- much more sticking to it! Learning about the ketogenic diet will bring you into a scene full of people who've tried keto and failed. Keeping your body in constant ketosis is not easy. 

It's made even more challenging by the fact that we live in a world of drive-thrus, fast food restaurants, and grocery stores filled with the endless supply of carbs. Many people have often mentioned several side effects, including how it is not easy to maintain healthy ketosis levels while on a keto diet. However, when you can get around the difficulties of a keto diet, you receive some exceptional benefits. 

1. Consuming Too Many Carbs

It seems like avoiding carb intake would be easy. Just handle your munchie needs in a keto friendly manner with things like black beans, cashews, or even a sugar-free latte. Because the carbohydrate count is so high for veggies full of starch, prepared vegetables and the majority of legumes and beans can take you out of ketosis. It is extremely easy to consume far too many carbs. 

And unless you're closely keeping an eye on your ketone levels, you will unknowingly fall out of ketosis by eating carbs without realizing it. Eggs, unprocessed meat, fish, bone broth, above-ground veggies, and unsweetened tea are some of the keto-friendly foods and drinks you should be consuming. 

2. ​Eating Too Many Unhealthy Fats

Eating a lot of fat is required on the keto regime because during ketosis it is what fuels your body. You need to be concerned about consuming healthy high-fat on this diet because not all fats are good for you and it can get unhealthy rather quickly.
 It can affect heart health when you consume meats that are processed as they are extremely high in saturated fat and sodium. Just how bad are saturated fats for you? 

There is no clear determination in the effect of saturated fats toward health based on a 2017 survey. Per recommendation from the American Heart Association, saturated fat should only contribute 5 to 6 percent of your daily calories, and this should come from eggs, red meat, butter, and coconut oil. You can always maintain healthy fat choices for getting the extra fat needed to follow this diet. 

3. Thinking Of The Keto Diet As A quick fix

Being on a keto diet does have a tendency to drop the weight off very fast. However, at the very beginning that weight loss comes from water. It will be difficult for the fat that isn't derived from water to stay off as this diet requires control. Achieving ketosis and keeping your body in that way is not just a diet - it is a lifestyle change. 

To constantly avoid certain temptations in food and drink, including alcohol, you must have very strong discipline. Before you start following a keto diet, it is crucial to consider your level of commitment to the process, since aside from the challenges involved, you would also experience undesirable effects during your transition to ketosis. 

4. Not Drinking Enough Water

After beginning the ketogenic diet lots of people in the first 30 days shed over 20 pounds. However, you should note that most of the lost weight during this time is just water weight. Well, it's quite reasonable because more than half of your body is water. Glycogen stores in the muscles start to diminish when carb intake is restricted for a few days.  As glycogen controls water retention, water levels will lower as it becomes depleted. Severe water loss can cause dehydration, which can lead to constipation. 

Moreover, glycogen deprivation can also cause a reduction in the body's lean muscles. The easiest way to gain glycogen, and thus prevent dehydration and loss of muscle mass, is strength training. In any instance, it is essential to drink water more often than usual if you are on the keto diet. 

5. Eating Too Much Protein

A macro nutrient that assists us in building muscle, feeling full and burns fat is protein which is necessary. Any healthy diet, including keto, primarily requires protein. Gluconeogenesis is a process where the body changes non-carbs to glucose and you may have heard it said that eating too much protein could be detrimental to the ketogenic  diet.


 Yes, weight loss can be slowed down by eating too much protein, and consuming too many processed meats can also increase your "bad cholesterol" or low-density lipoprotein levels. 

To guide and help you consume a healthy amount of protein, you should strictly follow these rules: If you are sedentary, you should only eat 0.6 - 0.8 grams of protein for every pound of lean body mass. If you have an active lifestyle, you can have 0.8 - 1.0 grams of protein or every pound of lean body mass. And consume 1.0 - 1.2 grams of protein per pound of lean body mass if you are lifting weights. 

It can be difficult to determine what benefits, either weight loss or others, that you should normally expect from a high-fat and very low diet as very little research has been done. As the keto diet is so very restrictive, it is therefore difficult to get exactly right.  Including giving up or limiting juice, fruits, starchy vegetables, sweets, sauces, and grains. You are required to consume lots of fats according to the specified list of ketogenic foods. This is how you encourage your body into the metabolic state that burns fat rather than carbs, called ketosis, thus increasing the amount of weight you lose. While fats come in a variety of forms, carbs are in everything. 

Thus, it can be easy for you to make mistakes here since they are not all healthy. If you are just starting a keto lifestyle, this is even more true. 