Although it is easy to monitor your kid's physical growth with milestones, your kid's early years can also be set on through the milestones of their emotional and social development. The emotional and social development play a significant part in every child's life and is critical. It is the primary building block of their life as they grow older. These fundamentals will enable your child to build a positive interaction with their peers by understanding and respecting others' feelings and ideas and the capability to handle their own emotions. 

How your child performs in school and the future will be determined by all these things. There are various stages of your kid's social and emotional development, and you will learn about it here. It is crucial for your child that they develop these social and emotional skills. 

1. Definition Of Emotional Development

Emotional growth starts during a child's earliest years, and the learning continues as they grow older. Infants must depend on their caregivers to understand the non-verbal communication they use to express their feelings. The ability to control their emotions is reflected in their expressions. The cultural and social influences of their environment and family are closely associated with emotional expression. 

The relationship between the caregiver and the child enables them to convey in culturally and socially acceptable ways, both negative and positive emotions. There is a high possibility for a child to suffer considerably later in life if they are unable to go through proper emotional development. 

2. Social Development Is Important

Social development helps build proper behavior in your child when they grow up. When children have a good understanding of their lives through social development, it helps them take control of their transition to adulthood. It helps a child to shape their future through their emotional and social development. While their emotions are in control, they can make decisions regarding their ambitions. A child has the ability of following instructions given by teachers or parents as well as playing and cooperating with peers when they develop social skills. 

As a result, it helps them go through a good transition while being involved in different activities. By teaching your child emotional skills, you are allowing them to learn how to control and express their emotions. 

3. From Birth To Six Months

Did you know that babies actively start to learn many things just a few days from birth? They will learn about themselves, and the people in their environment. Sucking on their fingers or looking at their hands is normal for your baby at this age. They will try to see the part of their body you touched and start to understand that they love to be soothed and comforted by adults. At this age, it is important to consider social interaction. 

At three to six months of age, your baby starts to respond whenever you call their name. Growing babies love to play peek-a-boo with you and easily laugh or smile every time you make silly noises. 

4. From Six Months To A Year

A baby will start to let you know when they like family members during this stage. Your young child will begin conveying different emotions, such as happiness, sadness, fear, and anger. They will learn to distinguish between strangers and family. When their toys are taken from them they will start to express frustration. Normally a baby will start showing signs of responsibility and become extremely social at around the age of nine months to a year old. 

Learning self-control is valuable at this point. The ability to imitate simple actions, such as holding onto their cup while drinking happens at this age. 

5. From One Year To Four Years

Children like to explore things in their environment, and your child will probably do so too. They attentively watch people move around them and feeling more aware of themself. The toddler stage begins at two years of age. Their confidence will be increased, and they will start to become creative. Also, they will often have abrupt mood changes. You will watch your child become independent when they become three. 

They will be willing to share their toys with friends and their brothers and sisters. They will start to obey directions. They will be creating new games and ask their friends to play with them. 

6. From Four Years to Six Years

A youngster starts to be aware of their individuality by the time they are four. They start to develop their ability to think logically and develop their motor skills. Your 4-year old child can now identify good behavior from bad behavior. They are comparing themselves with others. Your child will start to show sympathy to the feelings of others when they reach the age of six. 

They will start to develop a sense of competition. Following instructions correctly is something they should be able to do. Moreover, they will begin to become interested in activities, such as creative drawing. 

7. From Seven Years To Twelve Years

The age they start to school. At this point, your child will be able to mingle well with peers but will have frequent emotional outbursts. They will begin to become interested to learn main subjects like social studies and math. At this age, most youngsters have an approach to learning that includes self-discipline. 

Allow your child to start to be proactive in choosing some activities to do on their own. They begin to feel pride in their new responsibilities. 

8. From Twelve Years To Twenty Years

A psychological crisis is something kids experience at this stage. The teenage years are where your child must face all confusion surrounding the issues of the opposite gender as well as own. As they begin to understand themselves, they will start to answer questions satisfactorily. When your teenager is faced with an issue, this is when a rebellious nature can surface. 

Many self-doubts about themselves can arise. A teenager that usually prefers to be isolated is self-conscious about the way they look. 

9. Factors That Influence 

The growth of each child is complicated and unique. There are a few similarities established between the emotional development of a child and their parents. These factors tend to be hereditary. A child becomes emotionally mature as they develop it mentally. The emotions of a child rely upon their level of maturity. Children with stable overall health can handle their emotions better while those who are weak, have unstable emotions, are excitable, and irritable. 

An intelligent child also tends to be emotionally stable. If parents have stable behavior and can impartially express their feelings, their kids will emulate their behavior. On the other hand, if parents show violence, their children will also embrace the same. 

10. How To Enhance Social And Emotional Skills

Your child will tend to establish relationships with family members around them at birth. Acceptable behavior or the controlling of one's emotions is a process of development that may take some time to acquire. This process of emotional and social development in kids is usually ongoing until their adolescence. You need to provide the opportunity to allow your child to play with others to help develop their emotional and social skills. 

In this way, you can help your kid in expressing what they're feeling and also assist them in learning more about their capabilities. Offering limited options allow them to make some of their own decisions on everyday things like what to wear or want they want for dinner. 

At a baby's birth, they will begin to form relationships with the people they are around. It might take several years for their process of development to take place, like how to behave appropriately or control their emotions. Even into their late teen years, children are still developing their emotional and social processes. Responsible parents must be able to identify what emotional and social skills their children lack as early as infancy to be able to assist in attaining it as they grow. 

Be aware that your child may or may not exhibit the signs above at a certain age, but know that all kids are special individually. Nevertheless, it's important to remember that it is essential to show your child you love them. 