Easier said than done, for several people that describes sleeping. Just in the US, there is an estimate of between 50 and 70 million adults suffering from sleep disorders. Unfortunately, "only fair" or "poor" is how about 35% of Americans describe the quality of their sleep. Establishing night-time habits that are good is stressed by sleep experts to be important. To help you get more sleep try one of these 10 tips if you find yourself having trouble. 

1 Go To Bed At The Same Time

When regulating your sleep-wake cycle, the key role if played by your circadian rhythm, know as your internal clock. Not only does this clock tell you when to wake up in the morning, it also tells you when to settle in for the night. Melatonin, which follows the amount of light in your environment, greatly impacts this. So that you body more easily settles into a regular sleep-wake cycle, it is best to stay on the same sleep schedule each night and find your natural rhythm. 

This throws off the body's internal clock, and most people fail to see this as a priority. Your body is not capable of adjusting to a set schedule if you are always altering the time you wake up and go to sleep. To keep your circadian rhythm, you should also keep the same schedule on the weekends. To improve your sleep, always get up and go to sleep at the same time each day. 

2 Use Relaxation Techniques

Concentrate on the gentle rhythm caused as your chest rises and falls while taking slow deep breaths, if you are having trouble falling asleep. Try counting down from 100. Try loosening your legs and uncurling your toes to start relaxing each inch of your body until you feel rested. Having trouble with insomnia happens for close to one in five people. 

Knowing why a person is sleeping poorly is often difficult. To get more restful sleep and fall asleep faster change your sleeping habits and use relaxation techniques to help you. 

3 Create The Right Sleep Environment

How important your bedroom environment is to the quality of your of sleep can not be overstated. In order to have restful, restorative sound sleep, you need for your bedroom to be a sanctuary. Bedrooms are normally environments that are not conducive to getting a good sleep, they are often bright, noisy and cluttered. The sleeping experience is sensory. 

You need to consider all five senses, when creating an ideal environment for sleeping. You need your bedroom to be dark and cool. Wear a sleep mask or try blackout shades to darken your bedroom as light will keep you alert. So that you are not awakened during the night, regulate the temperature so it is not too warm. 

4 Cut Back On Caffeine And Other Stimulants

Stimulants and caffeine should be avoided. Try avoiding consumption of stimulants and caffeine in the last few hours before bedtime as they remain active in your system for several hours. Cutting down on cigarettes should also help to improve sleep as nicotine is another stimulant that has a similar effect. Even when you consume caffeine earlier in either the afternoon or evening, the effects still linger. The effects of caffeine on your sleep can be disruptive. 

Making it hard on you to get to sleep is one of the most obvious effects that a stimulant has. The timing of your body clock can even be delayed from caffeine a study has shown. Your total sleep time can be reduced by these effects. There is also a reduction in how much deep sleep you enjoy from caffeine.  

5 Establish And Stick To A Routine

You need a standard routine. Making a to-do list for the following day and settling down, approximately an hour before you plan on laying down, will help to clear your mind when going to sleep. The quality of your sleep will be improved when you stay consistent. You are more likely to fall asleep much easier and then sleep through until morning when you practice good "sleep hygiene". Our bodies need consistency for our overall well being so it is crucial to maintain a daily routine. 

The various systems in our bodies can anticipate and prepare for events when we have daily activities in a normal routine. When it is time to wake up, we become more alert naturally. In order to process food more efficiently, our digestive systems activate before a normal meal time. When it is bedtime, we start to relax and become more sleepy. 

6 Don't Drink Alcohol

Having a slow-wave delta activity sleep pattern has been linked to drinking alcohol before going to bed. Learning and memory formation happen during this deep sleep pattern. Alpha activity, another pattern of brain activity, also is turned on at this time. The normal time for alpha brain pattern activity is when you are resting quietly rather than when you are sleeping. Restorative sleep after drinking may be inhibited when the alpha and delta activity are mixed together in the brain. Your body does typically know that at night is not meant for trips to the bathroom, but for sleeping. 

Putting your bladder into hibernation for the night is a response your body has learned. However, as alcohol is a diuretic, needing to go more can interrupt you normal sleep pattern. Alcohol is disruptive to the later parts of your sleep, even if it feels easier to fall asleep faster when you've had a couple of drinks. It is best to stop drinking a few hours before bedtime, and reduce your intake. 

7 Read A Good Book

You can lower stress levels up to 68 percent by reading a good book before bed. Other common nighttime rituals, such as going for a walk, listening to music and sipping tea, are not associated with this high of a number. When you keep a good book sitting on your nightstand, it is simple to add the six minutes of reading needed to relax you for sleep into your nighttime routine. Helping you to decompress and calm your brain by signaling your body it is bedtime is easy when flipping through the pages of a good book at the end of a busy day. 

Getting your body into a familiar routine with a good book to unwind before bed is preferable to staring at screens that emit blue light. When not backlit by a harsh light, e-readers are fine as well. 

8 Exercise Regularly

Something else that helps you get wonderful sleep is working out. Want to be able to feel more rested when you wake up after falling asleep faster? Start moving! When done regularly, the quality of your nighttime sleep can be vastly improved with only 10 minutes of cycling or walking for aerobic exercise. Both sleep duration and quality are improved after physical activity. 

When exercise depletes your energy and reduces stress, it also helps you to sleep more soundly. As exercise slightly elevates the body temperature before allowing it to drop, early morning or afternoon exercise can be used to reset the sleep-wake cycle when sleepiness is triggered a few hours later. Exercising outdoors to allow the body time to absorb sunlight naturally during the day is also helpful. 

9 Turn Your Devices Off

While tablets and TVs emit the blue light that encourages poor sleep, smartphones are the biggest cause. From dusk until we go to bed, exposure to artificial light interferes with melatonin being released, which is a hormone that promotes sleep. Circadian rhythms are shifted to a later hour so that it is more difficult to fall asleep when it enhances your alertness. You can have adverse affects on your sleep from being both psychologically and physiologically stimulated by using electronic devices before bedtime. 

Turn your cell phone and computer off. The production of melatonin, the hormone that tells your body to sleep,  is interfered with by the blue light emitted from bright screens Turn your TV off at least an hour before bed, and avoid using phones, computers and tablets in bed. 

10 Eat A Snack Before Bed

A light snack at bedtime helps. Without weighing heavily on you, a small complex carb snack can help you slide into sleep. When combined with food like bananas, nuts, or milk that are high in tryptophans, this promotes good sleep. Good examples to try are peanut butter on whole-wheat toast or a bowl of cereal. For the body to produce serotonin, the chemical that aids the brain during the sleep process, the best snacks at bedtime need to contain the amino acid tryptophan. 

Most healthy bedtime snacks have a bit of calcium, some protein, and include complex carbohydrates. Snacks with high sugar content should be avoided. Your blood sugar levels will fluctuate after these. Spicy snacks at bedtime can prevent sound sleeping with heartburn, so better to avoid them. 

Sleep is obviously of utmost importance. It is obvious that we feel like taking on the world after getting a good night's sleep and that when we go too long without sleep we feel awful, even when we do not completely understand how sleep helps us. Just having a set number of hours for sleep is not getting enough sleep. To wake up feeling rested it is extremely important to also get quality sleep on at a scheduled time. 