Did you know that various health issues can arise, including stroke, heart disease, kidney disease, nerve damage, eye problems, and foot problems, due to having too much glucose in your blood? Diabetes comes in many different forms. We will each go over them. 

1. Alzheimer’s Disease: Type III Diabetes

The increased risk for people living with type II diabetes of getting Alzheimer's disease diabetes sufferers has long been known within the scientific and medical community. Although, there are some latest developments about Type III diabetes - a new type of diabetes having a direct link to Alzheimer's. A growing number of researchers have now been referring to Alzheimer's disease as Type III diabetes. 

As research demonstrates, insulin resistance is one of the primary culprits behind memory loss and dementia that may result in Alzheimer's disease. As diabetes is not an overnight thing, cognitive decline requires a while to progress, too. Fortunately for us, diabetes and cognitive decline can be successfully prevented by following a proper lifestyle and dietary choices. 

2. Autoimmunity and Type II Diabetes

Instead of being categorized as an autoimmune condition, Type II diabetes is considered a disorder in one's metabolism. However, the latest studies indicate that Type 2 diabetes's insulin resistance is due to your body tissues being attacked by B cells and other immune cells. The study proposes that individuals with Type II diabetes probably have cells that attack healthy tissues by mistake. While this calls for additional research, it looks like Type II diabetes may also be considered an autoimmune condition. 

Hence, it is linked to a person's autoimmune response system. These findings have encouraged researchers to search for new preventive measures and treatment options for Type 2 diabetes being an autoimmune condition. 

3. Type II Diabetes And Type IIb Diabetes

It is believed that type II diabetes is a metabolic condition. Lifestyle and eating habits are the most common causes of this health condition. And it is the most prevalent type of diabetes. Your body is unable to process insulin when you have type II diabetes properly. Your pancreas will initially try to dispense the extra insulin, but as soon as your pancreas can no longer keep up, it will result in high blood sugar. When this is not prevented through lifestyle choices, the progression will begin with insulin resistance, pre-diabetes, and end at type II diabetes. Research reveals that the belief of type II diabetes as being straightforward and simple may not accurate. 

Apparently, there is a second form of type II diabetes that has not been studied as much as the insulin-resistant one. This type that characterizes by having poor insulin secretion is called Type IIb Diabetes. 

4. Type I Diabetes

Many people worldwide have Type II diabetes, yet around 5% of individuals with Type I diabetes are already a considerable chunk of the populace. Approximately 40,000 new Type I diabetes cases are diagnosed each year, on top of the nearly 1.25 million US citizens who already have it. People of any gender, race, shape, and size can have type I diabetes occur at any age, even though type I diabetes was previously called juvenile diabetes when it is not limited to childhood. Type I diabetes is a health condition linked to autoimmunity. 

This means that if you have Type I diabetes, your body is not capable of producing insulin. Your body can't support the glucose in your bloodstream to reach your cells without insulin in your system. People can still live a healthy life when they use insulin therapy to keep their diabetes under control. 

5. Prediabetes

Insulin resistance increases your potential risk of prediabetes. When your blood sugar level higher than normal but not high enough to be diagnosed as type 2 diabetes, what you have is called prediabetes. Your risk of developing type II diabetes increases if you have prediabetes. Additionally, prediabetes may already have brought about some of the long-term implications of diabetes like kidney, heart, and blood vessel problems. The good thing is that you don't necessarily develop type 2 diabetes if you have prediabetes. 

Type 2 diabetes can be prevented. Follow some simple lifestyle strategies, including maintaining a healthy weight, moving your body, and eating the correct foods. When you stabilize your blood sugar, it is possible to reverse insulin resistance and prediabetes, thus preventing diabetes. 

Being able to naturally improve insulin sensitivity and reverse insulin resistance by using lifestyle and dietary changes is good news. Your blood sugar is effectively being stabilized. 