The parents are responsible for ensuring that their children have all the help they need and equip them with the required tools to understand and support their well-being and mental health. As a parent it is important to ensure your child maintains good mental health as per  a recent study. It is considered every bit as important as having a healthy diet and restful sleep during the night. Although challenging, don't lose sight of your child's physical health as it is just as important as their mental and emotional health. 

It can be challenging to notice the signs when your child is struggling, much less knowing how to address mental health issues with them. It can also be agonizing to accept that your child is struggling with depression or anxiety in their mental health, even when you do recognize it. Try these 5 tips to help reinforce your child's mental well being. 

1. Ensure Your Children Get Enough Shut-Eye

The ability to restore the immune system and balance hormones is influenced by sleep. Additionally, productivity, cognition and concentration are included in the significant and diverse aspects of brain function. Set a goal for around 8 hours of sleep per night. Your child may require additional sleep, if you notice in the morning that they are lethargic and want to take nap during the day. 

18C is the ideal temperature for us to fall asleep. Children as well as adults could also find it helpful to have a glass of milk. 

2. Make Time To Talk

How mental health is discussed has shown improvement over the past 25 years. However, we still have a lengthy road ahead of us. Step back and watch for a chance to open a conversation about their feelings when you realize that your child is emotionally struggling. Some of the pressure can be released when they can discuss their feelings. When we are facing something, the feeling of loneliness can be eased by just talking about it. There are other support and counseling services for young people available; your family physician can offer you guidance and advice when you have more severe issues. 

You can also consider purchasing a health cash plan. Your whole family will have round the clock access to telephone counseling, and therefore, will have peace of mind. 

3. Get Moving

Sitting for long periods of time isn't healthy, and that goes for children as well as adults. You can run marathons if you want to, but it's good to know that it isn't necessary to enhance our overall health. Moving around much more is what we all need to do. Issues such as depression, anxiety, and stress can be more easily managed when your family routinely includes regular workouts that keep the endorphins flowing, which is extremely important for mental health, not just the physical benefits of exercise. It can be challenging to set aside some time for physical activity with your children due to a busy routine, work, or if you need a babysitter, but you must try to include it in your schedule. 

Take a run on the weekends at the local park, sign up for a charity run event, or even simply choose to go for a walk after dinner rather than watching television are ideas that you could try. 

4. Don’t Forget To Crack A Smile

It is good to recall, a healthy lifestyle doesn't have to be burdensome, but that can be enjoyable. Our attitude can alter quite a bit. Set aside time daily with your kids to go for a run, watch a movie, or read a story that they love, and that will bring a smile to their face! You can alter specific muscles that dispense endorphins, which is a chemical just by smiling. 

Elevating endorphins generate your attitude and emotions. Reduction of stress levels and lowering blood pressure are other things that they help. 

5. Stay Informed

There are large numbers of children that have to deal with occasionally being stressed or feeling nervous.  Even if you have problems with relatives, friends, tests, heckling, or stress at school. These feelings are common, and most times, not severe; however, we are all subject to them. Although to manage and control them, there are easy methods that can be used. The ability to recognize the signs, where to access help, and staying abreast with the newest information about mental health are all crucial for parents to know. 

A change in normal behavior and eating disorders are examples of various symptoms a child may show when they are in a state of declining mental health. Don't hesitate to ask for professional help if you believe your child is having problems, build better communication by being there for your child, and be willing to talk about the issues they are facing. 

The way people think, feel, and behave are all affected by their mental health. A healthy body is equally important as looking after your mental health. You play a vital role in your child's mental health as a parent. By listening and asking your child questions, you can keep the lines of communication open. An excellent time for conversation is at the dinner table. When your child just does not feel comfortable discussing something with you, assist them in searching for someone they can talk with. The actions you take and the words you say as well as your surroundings at home, can advance your mental well-being. 

Your love and acceptance need to be visible. Any time they do something well, shower them with praise. Acknowledge their achievements along with their efforts. Understanding the beginning stages of mental health issues and where you can go for assistance. 