This article is for you if you have thought about upping your coloring game from colored pencils.  Your adult coloring pages will have a distinct look and feel when gel pens are used. Your colors will be more vibrant and fresh when using gel pens. There are certain techniques to use with colored gel pens, which is a good way to challenge yourself. We have explored gel pen techniques that you can master that will feed your need to color in this article.  To begin, we will discuss using markers with gel pens. 

We will go over the blending of gel pens. Then well talk about using stippling and cross-hatching to add texture, and finish up using gel pens to paint with. You will be able to make your adult coloring pages vibrant when you begin using these techniques. 

1. Blend Your Gel Pens

It takes some trial and error to get the hang of blending with gel pens. It can change a basic pattern into something that is very interesting. You will need to use two different brands of gel pens to achieve this technique. Select one like Sakura Gelly Roll Pens because their ink is really wet. 

Additionally, Art-n-Fly gel pens are another one you'll need because their ink is dry. You will end up with smears if you use two pens that have wet ink, so use the "wet" pen first and then use the dry pen over the edge of the area that is shaded as well as the next section. Repeat this process until you have the effect you want. 

2. Combine With Markers

You don't have to limit the mediums you use when you color in adult coloring books. You can achieve some captivating effects by blending markers with gel pens. Once an area is dried, you can add highlighting, cross-hatching, or stippling to it with gel pens. Using metallic gel pens will give your artwork some energy due to the contrast between that and the dark markers. 

Give yourself permission to be creative because there are no wrong answers to this. Create a piece of artwork that you love by experimenting with various combinations. 

3. Add Texture With Cross Hatching And Stippling

If you are a beginner, try this great technique. There aren't any risks in this. You can color over an area that you don't care for with another color, and no one will be the wiser. Use this technique on various types of coloring pages because it's going to take some practice. Making tiny grids with parallel lines that intersect is called cross-hatching. 

Your colored picture will look darker the closer to each other the lines are. Using a lot of tiny dots to create a pattern is called stippling. For lighter colors, place the dots further apart, and for darker colors, place them closer together. 

4. Paint With Gel Pens

Were you aware that you could create artwork with gel pens? Begin your coloring with a dark gel pen, then with a wet paintbrush, blend the area until the color fades away. A cosmetic brush will work just as well if you don't have a regular paintbrush. This technique works best on a free printable on cardstock or a coloring book that has thick paper, especially if you're going to use it on the whole page. 

Or else, your paper will buckle from the water. You don't want all your efforts wasted. 

To achieve more out of your coloring than only using colored pencils, you can learn to master various coloring techniques using other supplies. Your artwork can be more vibrant and brighter when you use gel pens. The techniques in this article will be a fun challenge that you can master. Here we have discussed a few enjoyable gel pen techniques you might want to learn and master for your next coloring time. First off, we explored techniques in combining gel pens and markers. 

Then, you were taught how to blend your gel pens effectively. Then we looked into using cross-hatching and tippling to add texture to your artwork, and lastly, painting using your gel pens. Now that you're done with this article, you can confidently start using the gel pen techniques you have learned here to transform your adult coloring pages into a striking and vibrant artwork! What is the first technique that you plan to master? 