The standard methods to relieve stress is something most of us know. For instance, focus on accomplishing things that are your priority, instead of doing everything at once. Or, learning to say no to other people's requests that aren't parallel with your goals, or steering clear from people who anger, irritate, or frustrate you, and so on. This time, how about if you try some effortless ways to minimize your stressors? 

Take note that you will be better armed to fight stress if you know a handful of stress management techniques. Read further to see some out of the ordinary ways to diminish stress. 

1. Drink Orange Juice

Did you know that drinking orange juice or eating oranges can help reduce stress? The reason behind this is that oranges are loaded with vitamin C. Based on studies, vitamin C can decrease stress hormone levels, such as cortisol, while at the same time makes the immune system stronger. Individuals with high vitamin C levels in their bodies don't exhibit the expected physical and mental signs of stress when they are put through stressful circumstances. 

People with lower amounts of vitamin C in their blood don't rebound from situations that are stressful as quickly as those with higher amounts  Studies show that you should take vitamin C routinely on a daily basis as it acts fast and doesn't last long. Indeed, vitamin C can be obtained through other ways, aside from drinking orange juice. You can take this vitamin as a supplement, or it is also in a variety of vegetables and fruits. 

2. Switch Brain Hemispheres

Another easy technique to reduce stress is switching to your other brain hemisphere. You see, we rely more on one brain hemisphere, either our left or right, when we do different tasks and activities. To lower stress, you can alternate the activity at any time to one that will not cause stress to the other side of your brain. Doing something that utilizes more of your left hemisphere such as organizing,  something that depends on linear, sequential thinking, or doing a Sudoku puzzle is one-way of getting out of the right hemisphere where your stress is and where you feel emotional distress, depression, worry, or are anxious. 

On the other hand, your brain's left hemisphere may be stressed out if you are overworked or pressured from deadlines. If this is your case, doing a right-brain activity such as drawing, playing your guitar or any musical instrument, engaging in a drama play, or joining other recreational activities, would de-stress you. 

3. Have A Handful Of Pistachios

When you are stressed out, elevated blood pressure is a common reaction of your body. In a study conducted at Penn State University, researchers discovered that eating pistachios induces a significant reduction of the adverse effects of stress on the blood pressure of the participants. So, whenever your stress makes you go nuts, well, better munch on some pistachios. Researchers observed that adding as little as 1.5 ounces of pistachio to your everyday diet will lead to positive results. 

The results revealed that the arteries were more relaxed and the heart didn't have to work as hard just by eating 3 ounces of pistachios every day. In short, consuming pistachios keeps your heart safe from stress. 

4. Get A Mini Workout In

As we all know, exercise enhances your health in general and boosts your sense of well-being, which adds your energy everyday. Along with it, exercise also offers immediate benefits in combating stress. It stimulates the release of your 'happy' hormones - the endorphins! The production of your brain's happy neurotransmitters or endorphins is boosted by physical movement. Your heart rate can be increased by the advantages of aerobic exercise like in-line roller-skating, dancing, running, or spinning. 

And once your heart beats faster, endorphins will be released by your body. Natural opiates called endorphins don't have any bad side effects but cause you to feel great.  

Unmanaged stress can cause significant damage not only to your mental health but to your physical health as well. It can hinder you from living a quality life. What unique methods do you have to lessen and manage stress? Too much stress prevents you from functioning at the best of your physical, mental, and emotional capacity. 

The truth is, there is no such thing as an entirely stress-free life. How to handle the stress of life is critical to know. Here are four easy methods to handle it. 