Lately, you may notice that conversations in social media, food packaging, and recipes that the term "keto" comes up quite often. Images of fatty foods like cheese, bacon, and sometimes butter in coffee are shown. Sometimes, what you see just may not include all of the facts regarding these spotlighted topics. The normal process that your body turns to when it does not have a supply of glucose to use for energy is ketogenesis. 

Your body will start to break down fats and convert it into a source of energy called ketones. You could almost say that your body has its backup generator, just built-in. However, the keto diet is surrounded by lots of myths. We expose 19 of those keto diet myths. 

1. Keto Diet Does Not Cause Death

Pharmaceutical drugs cause about 100,000 deaths every year. Tobacco use kills 6 million each year. There are 3.3 million deaths related to alcohol each year, and with combined deaths attributed to excess sugar intake such as heart disease, diabetes, and relating to obesity are estimated between 15 to 30 million per year. Between 1993 and 2008, 101 patients from Hopkins Children's aging from 2 to 26 years, that were treated with a ketogenic diet, were followed in a study for a minimum of 16 months, some even up to eight years. 

The patients have already stopped the diet between eight months to 14 years during the follow-ups. Research shows evidence that the keto diet is safe to use. 

2. High Fat Intake Causes Gallstones

When working properly, the gallbladder is constantly being flushed out to replenish itself. A stone formation will likely develop if it is not active, and the contents sit idle. Many people stumble into the trap of low-fat dieting before they find the keto diet. In consequence, constant low gallbladder activity results from months or even years of low fat intake. Stones are likely to form if the gallbladder sits idle when it is not needed to digest fat. With the increased fat consumption up to possibly 1000% in a ketogenic lifestyle, a shift occurs. 

This pushes the gallbladder into a very active state. Now, with the high fat content of a keto diet, the stones formed from the previous low-fat diets are being flushed out. 

3. Ketosis Damages The Kidneys 

The misunderstanding that high protein is part of the keto diet is the basis of the claim. To lower the amount of protein turned into sugar, the reality is that keto places a limit on protein intake. Consuming large amounts of protein may form kidney stones and damage the kidneys is another unsupported claim. You can then correct anyone attempting to convince you that high protein consumption makes the keto diet unsafe. 

Depending on your lean body mass and weight, the recommended amount of protein in a keto diet is only between 60 to 120 grams of protein per day; thus, it is known as the "Low carb, moderate protein, high fat" diet. This diet does not contain high protein. Anyone can kick themselves out of ketosis by eating more protein than they need, so they are not following a keto diet. 

4. The Keto Diet Causes Muscle Wasting

The claim of muscle loss resulting from a low carb diet is not proven by science. Just the opposite is more likely. The anecdotal evidence supporting ketosis as a fantastic diet for bodybuilding has grown tremendously because many people are adopting a ketogenic lifestyle. To achieve the amount of glucose needed by the brain while on a low carb diet, you would need to break proteins down. 

If sufficient protein is not acquired through the dietary means, body muscle would then be broken down to fill this need. Once the ketosis process is functioning, ketones will cover 70 to 75% of the brain's energy needs. Body muscle is then safe, as dietary protein intake easily covers the remaining 25%. 

5. The Keto Diet Lacks Fiber

A keto diet, when followed accurately, has a high fiber content. Of course, there are tons of not so pleasant results if your diet consists mostly of junk such as margarine, hot dogs, and cheese. Do not expect superior health from any diet when you eat only low-quality, poor food. There are three primary reasons for experiencing constipation while on a keto diet: Not enough fibrous vegetables included. 

You’re not taking adequate fat. Include additional coconut oil. Putting a tablespoon of coconut oil in your morning coffee fights constipation. Enough water and electrolytes are not being consumed. Constipation can result from dehydration. 

6. Keto Diet Raises Cholesterol 

For the body to accomplish certain functions, it must have a vital component of cholesterol in various places throughout the body. The foods that we eat have practically no effect on the amount of cholesterol due to how the body strictly controls it. The body will produce cholesterol, as it is needed. The body will excrete any amount of excess. The point here is that diet affects triglyceride levels, not the total cholesterol levels. 

High triglyceride levels mean high LDL particle count and having a more significant risk of heart disease. "Eating fat makes you fat" and "cholesterol is bad for you" are two of the biggest diet misconceptions. These two statements are entirely untrue. Cholesterol can be very beneficial. 

7. Ketosis Can Cause Dangerous Levels Of Dehydration

Losing electrolytes and water, actually, normal during the ketosis process. Consuming adequate daily water intake can easily alleviate this. Eating foods that contain potassium, magnesium, and sodium, is very important as these are the electrolytes needed. You are changing to a diet that flushes water rather than a diet that retains water when you choose a low-carb ketogenic diet. 

Glycogen retains water, and is the cause of inflammation, so decreasing the amount of glycogen and reducing inflammation are some of the reasons to do this. The flushing process is quite similar to a normal everyday dehydration, and is commonly called the 'keto flu'. Drink more water is still the same answer. 

8. Ketosis Can Become Keto-Acidosis

As long as you have normal pancreatic function, it is not physiologically possible for you to get keto-acidosis. That self-proclaimed authorities are attempting to discredit the diet claiming it is unsafe arguing it causes keto-acidosis, revealing just how little they truly know about the diet. There is no risk of developing keto-acidosis for anyone who can produce insulin in their pancreas, only type one diabetics need to be cautious about the release of ketones. People with diabetes produce ketones nonstop, but they are not able to produce any insulin. 

A pH imbalance happens when beta-hydroxybutyrate levels reach 15 mm to 25 mm, and this can lead to far-reaching metabolic derangement. However, people who have no problems producing insulin need not worry about going into a state of metabolic confusion. 

9. The Brain Runs On Glucose

Between 30 to 50 grams of glucose daily is all that is needed by the brain. Using the process gluconeogenesis, the body quite easily produces this amount from the protein in our food intake. You do not need carbohydrates for this. The brain uses glucose for fuel, the majority of people already know this. 

That ketones are a more fuel efficient alternative for it to run on, is not known by the majority. The brain will draw up to 75% of its needed energy from ketones after the body is running fully in keto. Dietary proteins can then be used to produce the remaining 25% of glucose needed. 

When desperate, some people are willing to try extreme measures to lose body fat, and occasionally it will work. Transitioning back to normal eating habits after complete the diet, may be a more complex endeavor. Nor have there been studies yet to determine just how our health is impacted by long term use. Regardless of a diet chosen for general maintenance, muscle gain, or fat loss, the ability to follow the diet with a variety of high-quality foods are two qualities that should be considered when you want your diet to be vitamin-packed and nourishing. Always remember to consider your health history, special health needs, activity level, preferences, and goals when selecting recommendations for filling your nutritional needs. 

When selecting the right personalized nutrition to support an optimized health lifestyle, assistance from a registered dietitian nutritionist can be beneficial. Read the most recent research to help keep you updated. 