In the last few years, the ketogenic diet, along with other high-fat diet programs, are becoming increasingly popular as a prime weight-loss tool, while also managing blood sugar issues and improving the neurological functions of the brain. Regardless of how real the avocado obsession is, just how intelligent is it to be consuming even healthy fats constantly? This article contains information helpful for people who have recently started or are thinking about starting the keto diet. 

With the right information at hand, your willpower and transitioning to this challenging lifestyle can become the best path you'll ever take. What foods are allowed on the keto diet, and how the keto diet was developed will be discussed here. The safety of the keto diet will be shown. It is complicated anytime you alter your diet. Read on and discover the 6 essentials of the keto diet that you must learn if you want to get into this lifestyle. 

1. The First Few Weeks Are Challenging

Several people who have started keto reported that the diet is challenging in its initial weeks.   Some undesirable symptoms can manifest, once the body starts to switch to using ketones as fuel instead of glucose. It is easier to accomplish your change in lifestyle by powering through this challenging phase when you begin your journey knowing this is normal. Commonly called the keto flu, these symptoms include a general lack of energy, nausea, fatigue, brain fog, and headache. 

Depending on which side effects you suffer, the keto flu normally passes in a couple of weeks. Before you start on a new diet plan you should consult your physician, the ketogenic diet is not an exception. 

2. The Keto Diet Is Safe

A broadly studied and proven advantage of the ketogenic diet is an effective and safe weight loss program for obese patients. It can control an individual's blood sugar levels and also minimize and eliminate epilepsy symptoms. However, this should be undertaken with the proper guidance of a nutritionist, dietician, or a medical professional. According to research, this diet can have some very unpleasant side effects, this includes the keto flu. 

Higher LDL cholesterol levels and kidney stones are among the other side effects. Returning to a standard American diet when no longer following a ketogenic diet can allow you to put the weight back on very quickly. 

3. Carbs Will Be A Thing Of The Past

When you go on a keto diet, refined carbohydrates are no longer allowed. Fats (and lots of it!) take center stage. Healthy oils like olive and coconut, raw nuts and seeds, organic dairy products like cultured butter and whole milk, pasture-raised meats, organic eggs, coconut, and avocados are all allowed food choices. The keto diet does not allow any foods that are high in carbohydrates. 

This covers starches, sugar, grains, beans, legumes, refined industrial oils (e.g., soybean and canola), soda, alcohol, low-fat diet foods, artificial sugars and chemicals, and even 'sugar-free' foods. Berries, cucumbers, bell peppers, and leafy greens can be consumed in moderation, as they are fruits and vegetables with low carbohydrates. 

4. The Keto Diet Is Healthy

Insulin and blood sugar levels tend to be lower without the abundance of carbohydrates. This may be crucial to lowering the risks of pre-diabetes and Type-2 diabetes. A study done in 2005 showed that ten obese patients who have Type-2 diabetes experienced better insulin sensitivity by an impressive 75 percent in just two weeks of being into the keto diet. Another study in the same year found that out of 21 participants with Type-2 diabetes who follows the keto diet for 16 weeks, there were seven who were able to stop on their diabetes medications. Turning to keto for weight loss has also been proven effective in studies. 

Another study in 2003 showed that after six months, people on a ketogenic diet were able to lose 2.2 times more weight against a group following a low-fat calorie restriction diet. There was also an improvement in triglyceride and HDL cholesterol levels for those who participated in the ketogenic diet. According to a 2012 study, the keto diet may reduce symptoms of Alzheimer's and slow down this degenerative disease. It may also aid in the recovery from a brain injury, improve the symptoms of Parkinson's disease, and polycystic ovarian syndrome. 

5. How It Works

The ketogenic diet works by replacing glucose with fat as the body's primary fuel source through rigorous reduction of carbohydrates - the source of glucose. The process alters how the body functions completely. The body goes into a metabolic state called ketosis, where it no longer relies on glucose for fuel but switches over to using ketones instead. In ketosis state, the body utilizes fat as fuel by converting this macronutrient into ketones in the liver. 

It will support the energy needs of the body's hungriest organ - the brain. While there are many variations in doing the keto diet, such as adding high-intensity exercise for extra carb intake, the ultimate goal remains - use fat as fuel. 

6. How It Started

Remember the carbohydrate-defaming diet craze in the 90s, the Atkins diet? The keto diet also follows a similar dietary principle.  Meaning, 75 percent of your daily calories should come from fat, with moderate (20 percent) protein intake, and just a mere five percent portion for carbohydrates. This diet was developed as a treatment for epileptic children, regardless that it sounds like it would have been created by a Cross Fit marathoner. 

The ketogenic diet was designed by Dr. Russell Wilder in 1924 at the Mayo Clinic as a standard of care for minimizing seizures of epileptic patients. This form of diet became unfashionable in the 1940s with the popularity of anti-seizure medications. 

The keto bandwagon has enticed countless numbers of people to join in. With that, keep in mind that you must educate yourself first if you are planning to change your diet for whatever reason. Any diet change, including keto, has its fair share of challenges on its course. Through this article, you will know that the keto diet is a safe weight loss tool you can take advantage of. 

The first few weeks of being on a diet are the most difficult, and that is something you should be aware of. The keto diet is beneficial is several healthy ways. Thus, you can start your ketogenic journey with a clearer understanding of your new lifestyle. Living a healthy lifestyle, feeling better about yourself, and looking better than ever is just within your reach! 