In addition to your basic adult coloring skills with colored pencils, you can up your coloring game by learning some new techniques with colored pencils that will enhance your coloring in a surprising way. Depending on the technique you choose, you can get varied results. You can use these ideas, or you can put them together to come up with your own methods. The goal is for you to color with skill, instead of just coloring. To begin, we will explore shaping and burnishing as well as shading and highlighting. 

Hatching and cross-hatching is the technique that we will discuss next. Following that, we will go over how to keep your paper free of debris and finish up with the use of solvents and how to blend them. You will be able to enhance your coloring skills in a surprising way and once you have learned these new techniques, you will begin coloring beautifully. 

1. Hatching And Cross-Hatching

In all aspects of drawing, the method of hatching can be used.  Hatching is achieved by making parallel lines on the drawing. As long as these lines are not touching each other, they can be vertical, horizontal, or angled. Unlike the technique of back and forth, you raise your pencil to make each line. Cross-hatching is a relative of hatching because the lines are intersected, which is where we get the name, instead of drawing lines that are parallel to each other. 

To create shading and texture, this technique is perfect. Make sure your pencil is sharpened so that your cross-hatches will look neat and exact. 

2. Keeping Debris Off The Paper

Your artwork may have a residue from the colored pencils. There is more residue from wax-based pencils than when you use oil-based pencils. This debris can get stuck in the grain of your paper, which can contaminate the color and interfere with your artwork. To prevent this from happening, keep your artwork clean while you are coloring. 

Use a can of compressed air or a small duster to avoid debris. To keep wax or eraser debris off of your artwork, you can also use cosmetic brushes. 

3. Highlighting And Shading

Additionally, if you want to keep darker colors out of another area, it's a good idea to outline any highlights. You can also use the color of the paper as a highlight in lieu of adding color, depending on the type of paper you have. For instance, to highlight an area that represents an object that is shiny, leave that area of the white paper open. Creating highlights can be done with a pencil, crayon, white acrylic paint, pastels, or a gouache. To shade, use a darker hue of another color and refrain from using black. 

Black is too strong of a color and will throw your artwork off, particularly if you want it to appear more realistic. Instead of working on every area of your artwork, finish the smaller areas first when coloring. This way, the artwork won't be smudged so much. 

4. Burnishing And Scraping

Using pressure to fill in the surface of the paper with color and layers is called burnishing. Your artwork will then have a smooth and shiny appearance. The paper will be filled with color quicker when you use sharp colored pencils. You can only do scraping after burnishing. 

After the area you burnished is lustrous, remove the parts you want by scraping them away using an X-ACTO knife When you want an effect that is highly textured, like animal fur, for instance, use this technique because it will leave a scratchy look. 

5. Back And Forth And Color Application

You have probably done the back and forth technique because it is a basic technique. To accomplish this, move the pencil back and forth across the paper in a perpetual motion. Keep doing this until the area you want to cover is completed. Work from light to dark colors when you are applying color since the lighter ones are not as apparent on the darker colors. 

It's easier to fix the lighter colors than the dark ones. Additionally, be aware of the pressure that you are using when applying color. The colors will be more intense when more pressure is used. To accomplish that, begin using light pressure so you're not adding the darker color before you should. 

6. Using Solvents And Solvent Blending

To blend the colors, use solvents because it will disrupt the colors. This will decrease the coloring strokes and give your artwork a smoother look. There are several types of solvents that you can purchase to use with colored pencils. If you plan on using solvent on your artwork, test it on your paper first to see if your paper will hold up regardless of what type of solvent it is. 

Another thing to remember is to let the solvent dry before you apply any more color. The excess solvent can be removed with a paper towel or cloth to assist in the drying process. 

Contingent on the one you use, you will get varied results with these pencil techniques. You can come up with your own technique or mix and match the new ones you learned. Basic coloring with pencils can be done, or you can improve your coloring skills in a surprising way by using these techniques. Now you will be coloring beautifully, instead of just coloring. To begin, we'll explore shaping and burnishing and finish up with shading and highlighting. 

Hatching and cross-hatching in the next technique we will discuss. Following that, we went over how to keep your paper free of debris and finished up with the use of solvents and how to blend them. You can begin using these techniques to beautify your coloring skills now that you know how to use them.  Do you favor one over another? 