Educating your child on how to read can be a terrific time for you and your kid.  Once your child becomes proficient in reading, this life long skill will stay with your child well into adulthood. The task of teaching your child how to read can be daunting. The purpose of this article is to help make this tricky time easier not only for your child but for you as well. Initially, we will go over how to present questions as well as providing an example. 

Second, we will cover identifying letters. Next, we will cover cracking the code and finish with word families. When finished, by following these simple steps, you will have the knowledge to teach your child how to read. Below are 10 steps that will make it easy to teach your child how to read. 

1. Read Aloud To Your Child

The ongoing process of teaching your child how to read starts in infancy. Continual reading provides a special bond between you and your child as well as allows your child to develop a love for books.  When children enjoy reading this is one of the best indicators of reading success in school. It's crucial that children learn to enjoy reading early on otherwise there's a good chance it may obstruct their reading capability in the future. It is up to you and your family to decide how much time is spent reading together. 

Even when your child is young, set a goal of reading between 3 or 4 books each day. The time will come when your child will be able to sit for more extended periods, thus allowing you and your family to set a new goal of reading 20 minutes every day. 

2. Ask Questions

Keep in mind that it is essential to ask questions while reading to your child to help encourage them to not only interact with the book but understand what they are reading. Be there as your child sounds out words correctly, as there is much more to reading than this. Even children who can sound out words correctly and read with ease may have trouble understanding what it is they are reading. While still a baby, encourage your child early to interact by asking questions like, "Can you see the dog?" 

At the same time, point out thee photo of the dog. By doing this, you are helping your child interact with the book they are reading as well as help them to build their vocabulary. As your child grows older, have them participate by pointing out what animals they see and making the noises themselves. 

3. Be A Good Example

Although your child may already have an interest in books early on, remember it's essential to be their role model and allow them to see you reading, thus preventing them from losing interest. Be sure to intentionally let your child see you reading for a few minutes every day, even if you aren't a passionate reader personally. It's all up to you; it could be reading your Bible, an article in a magazine, or a recipe out of a cookbook. Set an example and let your child see that even grown-ups need to read. 

4. Identify Letters In Natural Settings

Usually, we expect our children to memorize letters at a particular time. We purchase items alleging to be able to teach our kids their letters, such as DVDs or flashcards. We quiz our toddlers repeatedly for minutes at a time. Don't fall for this; instead, let your kid enjoy their childhood, and when life gives you those "teachable moments," take advantage. Children are capable of memorizing their ABC's from repeated drilling because their minds are like sponges, however, if you want long-term development it is not the most effective approach. 

Naturally, your child will be curious and ask questions about what he sees around him. It is an opportunity for you to jump in with the practical implementation that has meaning and importance to your child. 

5. Incorporate Multiple Domains Of Development

Be sure to incorporate not only different areas of development but various senses too, as children learn best this way. Thus, explaining why hands-on learning yields better results and longer retention. When your child demonstrates an interest in their ABC's, and you have started to use everyday settings to recognize those letters and start adding activities that include as many senses as you can. There are numerous ways to include many different development domains to your child when it comes to recognizing letters and early reading skills. 

A great way to incorporate using fine motor skills while learning the alphabet would be to include crafts that allow your child to glue, cut, and create while associating both the pronunciation and the shape of the letter. To incorporate movement, introduce games that require using gross motor skills such as throwing beanbags on the correct letter. 

6. Classify The Genre

For children to organize books into their correct genres, they will have to recap the book first and remember details. Second, they will pick which genre fits with that book based on the information. At last, your child will remember features from different books in a similar genre, making associations between the two. It's essential to note that not all books will fit into one of these categories, such as books deemed "phonics readers." 

Keep in mind that our objective is for our children to learn how to understand what they're reading; otherwise, reading will be pointless. We should encourage our children to understand and think about what we have just read because we are inadvertently showing them what we want them to do on their own in the future. 

7. Word Families

Words that rhyme generally belongs in the same word family. To help your child recognize patterns while reading, use a phonemic awareness activity such as teaching them word families. It is a significant technique since it permits children to start reading by organizing sets of letters inside a word. The last part of a word refers to as "rhyme," while the first part refers to as "onset." 

As the onset or beginning of the word changes, word families have a similar rhyme. When your child becomes familiar with the word "mop," similar rhyming words such as hop, pop, top, cop, or stop, will be easier for your child to learn to read since only the first letter is different. Being able to spot words that rhyme is an excellent skill in itself. 

8. Phonemic Awareness And Phonics

In the English language, "phonemes" are referred to as the smallest unit of sound in a word that makes a difference in its meaning and pronunciation. Phonemes consist of short and long vowels, digraphs, and consonants. Phonemic awareness includes readers learning how letters systematically represent sounds in words. A combination of two letters that make a single sound, such as th, ph, sh, and ch, is referred to as digraphs. Phonics consist of learning not only how to spell those sounds, but the many rules the English language ensues, as well. 

Although phonics is an essential part of reading and spelling, it should never be the focal point. Remember, our goal is to balance our literacy curriculum with the final result being reading comprehension. Understanding the concepts of phonics is a great tool that will help children learn how to decode and spell. 

9. Decoding

"Sounding it out" is commonly known as decoding. Although this is a relevant part when teaching your child to read, it is not the most significant. When your child can recognize every letter and their sounds (usually learned in real-life situations), they will be ready to start putting words together. When analyzing a short word, motivate them to sound each letter out /b/, /a/, /t/, and then put them together, for example, bat. 

Once children become familiar with decoding words, they will grow well-versed and automatically recognize that word. Try to find innovative ways to make it fun, as this can be a dragging assignment. 

10. Sight Words

'High-frequency words" or "sight words" are the most commonly used words in the English language. Because these words don't abide by the rules of phonics, they are frequently a challenge to decode phonetically. For this reason, memorizing them is a must. Memorizing sight words is essential as it will allow your child to become a proficient reader. 

The Fry List and the Dolche List are two favored lists of sight words found to be instrumental by individual researchers. Once you feel like your child is up for it, begin practicing with only a couple of sight words at a time to avoid feeling overwhelmed. 

Your child will be able to enjoy this essential skill throughout life, once they grasp it. Teaching your child to read doesn't have to be intimidating once you have all the information. Now, teaching your child how to read is no longer a daunting task but rather simple for you and your child. Step one talks about how to present questions with examples. 

Step two covers identifying letters. Step three covers cracking the code and finished with word families. Now that you have finished this article, you are now fully prepared with these simple steps to teach your child how to read. 