The milestones to mark the emotional and social development for the early childhood years are not as prominent as the milestones used to mark their physical growth. Social and emotional developments are two major aspects that play a crucial role in every child's life. It is the primary building block of their life as they grow older. Through this foundation, that helps your child's ability to have positive interaction with others, respect others' thoughts, understand others' feelings, and handle their own emotions are built on this foundation. 

These things shape the ability of your child to deal well with school and life beyond. There are various stages of your kid's social and emotional development, and you will learn about it here. It is crucial to your child that they develop social and emotional skills. 

1. Definition Of Emotional Development

Emotional growth starts during a child's earliest years, and the learning continues as they grow older. During childhood, babies communicate what they feel in a non-verbal way and rely on their parents or caregivers to understand their cues. Babies' expressions are interconnected with their capability to control their emotions. Cultural and social influences in a child's family and environment are closely linked to their emotional expression. 

The relationship between the caregiver and the child enables them to convey in culturally and socially acceptable ways, both negative and positive emotions. A child can endure great suffering in their life when they lack proper emotional development. 

2. Social Development Is Important

Your child learns proper behavior with this. A child learns to understand life and gain control throughout this transition into an adult from social development.  A child's future is shaped by their social and emotional development. Thus, emotional and social development helps mold a child's future. While their emotions are in control, they can make decisions regarding their ambitions. Having their social skills developed allows children to listen attentively to instructions given by their parents and teachers, as well as work together and play with their peers. 

While participating in various activities they can have a smooth transition. Emotional readiness will pave the way for your child to learn how to take charge of their emotions. 

3. From Birth To Six Months

At birth, babies will start to actively learn numerous things. They gain an understanding of themselves and about the people around them at home. During this time, your baby should be able to suck their fingers and look at their hands. When a baby's body is touched, they will try and see where you are touching them and start to learn that they not only love being soothed but need the comfort that their parents give. A key element to take into consideration during this time is social interaction. 

Babies between the ages of three to six months can respond to you when you call their names. Growing babies love to play peek-a-boo with you and easily laugh or smile every time you make silly noises. 

4. From Six Months To A Year

Babies will show a liking to members of their family at this stage of their emotional development. The emotions of fear, sadness, anger, and happiness will start to be expressed by a child. They can identify who their family members are from strangers. When their toys are taken from them they will start to express frustration. Your baby starts to socialize and learns to be a little responsible at nine months to one year. 

During this stage, the ability to learn how to self-regulate is critical. Your baby should be able to imitate actions that are easy and hold a cup while drinking from it. 

5. From One Year To Four Years

Children like to explore things in their environment, and your child will probably do so too. Gaining a sense of self-awareness while watching people around them. The toddler stage starts at the age of two. They will gain confidence and learn creativity. Having frequent mood swings is also normal. You will watch your child become independent when they become three. 

You will see them start to share their toys with their siblings as well as their friends. Your child will start following instructions too. They will also invite their friends to play the new games they created. 

6. From Four Years to Six Years

At four years old, your child starts to become aware of their individuality. They start to develop their ability to think logically and develop their motor skills. Your 4-year old child can now identify good behavior from bad behavior. They will start comparing themselves with their peers. Your child will start to show sympathy to the feelings of others when they reach the age of six. 

And, they will begin to be more competitive with others. By this time, they should be able to follow instructions correctly. Be interested when they draw creatively. 

7. From Seven Years To Twelve Years

This is the age of school. At this point, your child will be able to mingle well with peers but will have frequent emotional outbursts. An interest in learning major subjects, such as social studies and math, will also catch their attention. Having a self-disciplined attitude about learning is present for most children this age. 

Allow your child to start to be proactive in choosing some activities to do on their own. They will feel pride with these new responsibilities. 

8. From Twelve Years To Twenty Years

A psychological crisis is something kids experience at this stage. They will go through a great deal of confusion about their gender, the opposite sex, and other issues associated with becoming a teenager. They will understand more about themselves if they learn how to respond to your questions acceptably. When your teen comes face to face with an issue during this stage, a rebellious nature can surface. 

They will feel lots of uncertainties regarding themself. Usually, teens will prefer to be alone and become conscious of their appearance. 

9. Factors That Influence 

Every child develops in their complex and unique manner. There are similarities found between a child's emotional development and their parents. These factors tend to be hereditary. A child becomes emotionally mature as they develop it mentally. The emotions of a child rely upon their level of maturity. Children who have poor health tend to show unstable emotions, excitement, and irritability, while those with good health have better control over their emotions. 

More stable emotions are also seen in intelligent children. Children also reflect their parents when they use a balanced manner to express emotions and stability in their behavior. A parent's violent behavior can also be adapted by their children. 

10. How To Enhance Social And Emotional Skills

A baby starts to cultivate relationships with family members in their environment from the time they were born. A child's emotional development, such as their emotional control and proper behavior, might require a couple of years to progress. This process of emotional and social development in kids is usually ongoing until their adolescence. Your kids need to play with others, so you need to make that happen so that they can develop emotional and social skills. 

It allows them to express their feelings and learn about their capabilities. Offering limited options allow them to make some of their own decisions on everyday things like what to wear or want they want for dinner. 

At a baby's birth, they will begin to form relationships with the people they are around. However, the process of developing their proper behavior and control of their emotions might go on for a few years. Even into their late teen years, children are still developing their emotional and social processes. Responsible parents must be able to identify what emotional and social skills their children lack as early as infancy to be able to assist in attaining it as they grow. 

Parents must understand that each child is unique in their ways, so there is no exact age or time when their child may or may not exhibit the signs mentioned above. One crucial thing you must always remember is to let your kids know that you love them more than anything. 