Upfront is the best way to state this. Your poop is what we are discussing right now. Diarrhea is quite disconcerting when you are the person who has it, and while it is not a common problem on a ketogenic diet, it does occur on the journey to ketosis. With those who are lucky enough to skip the keto flu experience, the diarrhea symptoms will show up around the same time that you have the keto flu side effects. Unless you address the main cause of your diarrhea, it will not stop. 

When you are experiencing stomach issues, the reason may have been caused by one of the three most common errors when you start on a keto. Everything that you need to be aware of about keto diarrhea is listed here. Most of the time, a simple correction can help get your stomach feeling better. 

1. Sugar-Free Products

Are sugar-free bars, sugar-free candies, and sugar-free beverages some of the food you consume? There are two forms of sugar substitutes. Sugar alcohols and artificial sweeteners are the most common forms. Sugar alcohols are something that most people have a sensitivity to. Gastrointestinal distress can result from isomalt, lactitol, maltitol, mannitol, sorbitol, and xylitol, all sugar alcohols. 

Especially when it comes to sorbitol. When too many of these sugar alcohols are ingested, it is prevalent that diarrhea is joined by bloating and cramping. 

2. Protein

Is it possible that you are eating too much protein? It becomes effortless to eat more than your needed protein if you are not tracking them closely. Diarrhea can result from high amounts of protein. It is good thinking to start checking into your sources of protein intake. 

There is a possibility that you are lactose intolerant when a lot of your protein is coming from dairy sources, such as protein shakes. Another cause could be when you have lowered fibrous vegetables at the same time you increased proteins. 

3. Sources Of Fat

Does the fat you are eating come from healthy sources? It is very crucial that you select healthy fats to eat as the bulk of calories you eat comes from your fat intake. Unfortunately, vegetable and seed oils that are rich in omega-6 fats are difficult for our digestive systems. Diarrhea and digestive upsets are often the results that come from omega-6 fats. 

It is more beneficial to stay with high quality saturated fat and mono-unsaturated fat products. These omega-6-fats can be found in high-fat cheeses, cream, olive
oil and butter. 

4. Reactions To Diet Changes

Diarrhea can result from an adjustment in your diet regimen. Particularly if you are accustomed to consuming a lot of foods that are highly processed with a high amount of carbohydrates. When there is a big adjustment to your diet, it is not uncommon to experience a reaction in your GI system. Under those circumstances, remember that it will be short term. 

An adjustment will be made by your body. Sometimes, we only need to give our body a little time to adjust. 

5. Bile

Your body breaks down fats using bile. The liver is where this is produced. Your body begins to create more bile as you increase the intake of fat. Diarrhea is a result of the excess bile lubricating the colon. Added fats should be reduced. 

Creams, coconut oil, MCT oil, and butter are some of the inclusion. Concentrate on foods like meat, avocado, and nuts because they are naturally fatty foods. Begin to slowly add in other fat sources after your body has had time to adjust. 

6. Too Much Magnesium

Those who follow an eating plan with lower carbs quite often deal with electrolyte imbalance issues. Taking a vitamin and mineral supplement that includes magnesium is something most people tend to do. Digestive problems flare up when you take too much magnesium. Stop taking magnesium supplements if you are currently taking them. 

You can get magnesium from your food instead. A high-quality source of magnesium is bone broth. Make an effort to stay at 3000mg every day. 

7. Food Intolerance

Quite often, when you cannot process certain foods, your stools will turn to a certain color, such as yellow or green. It is definitely a sign that your body has issues processing something when you begin to see any whole chunks. When anything like this starts to happen, you should keep track of it. 

Figuring out what it is that your body is not processing should be fairly easy to do. Keeping your meals simple with only one vegetable at a time should make it simple to find the culprit. 

8. Probiotics

Probiotics need to be added to your meals. You help to maintain a healthy balance level of gut bacteria when taking probiotics. Digestive health is just one of the many health benefits that probiotics have been linked to. Digestive issues occur when you do not have enough good bacteria in your gut and too many bad bacteria. 

Everything is balanced out with the use of probiotics. There is a powder form of probiotics that can be sprinkled over your food, or you can swallow a capsule supplement form. 

9. Water

Drinking plenty of water is something you should be doing when you are on a keto diet. Drinking plenty of water is something you should be doing when suffering from diarrhea. Therefore, the importance of this has increased. It would be best if you always were drinking plenty of water. Replenishing both the fluids and the electrolytes, you lose during diarrhea is very important. 

It is not enough to replace the water. You can drink either high-quality store-bought bone broth or some that you have made at home; to replace your lost electrolytes. Always remember to add this to the daily amount of magnesium you are allowed for the day. 

There are available medicines. Some products are aimed to ease the symptoms of diarrhea, such as Immodium. When you are not aware of the root cause, the short-term relief provided may not be of much help to you. If there is no improvement in your diarrhea, what then? You should see a doctor when the symptoms are severe and persist after a week of following all laid out suggestions. There is a possibility that your diarrhea is caused by something not related to the keto diet. 

This is not something that you are required to do alone. When you feel as if you are going through the keto diarrhea alone, dealing with it is more difficult. When the option of talking things over with someone else exists, even if it's just about diarrhea, then those huge changes become much easier to deal with. 