Has it ever occurred to you that even with the recent economic slump and recession, our country seems to continue consuming a lot? We consider mountains of wood and paper waste and just burn them daily. The beauty of the countryside scenery is currently being littered with countless tin and metal wastes that are more than enough to encircle the Earth. Making use of something you usually throw away is one of the best feelings you can be proud of, not only the pride of saving some cash but more so of helping the country recycle and reduce its top concern, which is waste. 

Whether to make life easier or craft a useful object, you can use the everyday items listed below that would normally be tossed away. 

1. Bags 

Paper sacks can be useful in other ways, aside from their general use. Use it as a trash can by hanging it from the back of your seat in the car. It will help the children not to get tempted to litter. If someone is sick at home with a cold or the likes, you can secure a bag on one side of the bed to have a used cleansing tissue bin handy and avoid scattering the germs. 

To easily and quickly empty the cloth bag on your vacuum cleaner, shake it out over a larger bag. You can also use a heavy paper bag as a cover for both ends of a rolled rug covered with paper to keep it from dust. 

2. Bottle Cap

When you have a dent, patch it with a bottle cap. Can you find dents and scratches in your wooded table? First, use a wet cloth to cover the dented area. Then, place the metal bottle cap at the table over the dent with the scalloped edge facing upward, not downward. Lightly press the very tip of a hot iron against the center of the cap. You can also make use of a bottle cap as a plunger's "washer." 

If the rubber at the end of the plunger keeps slipping off, tighten it into the handle by nailing a metal bottle cap at the end and pushing it into the rubber plunger to make it fit. 

3. Coat Hangers

People have been inspired to write articles because of the many uses they have. As the wire ones will eventually rust, we will not recommend them for something so ridiculous as using them for trellises or fences. But they're flexible enough to be converted into trouser hangers by just tweaking the ends together and running a belt strap through each side end, pinching on both ends and bending the top wire upward can serve as skirt hangers with the help of some safety pins. Nothing beats a straightened coat hanger to clean and remove something wedged inside your vacuum-cleaner tube when you have no available stiff wire to use. 

And with just a little tweak, you can create a hanging rack for drying your socks, stockings, and other tiny pieces of laundry using a discarded cake rack or a refrigerator shelf rack strapped to a coat hanger at each end. Keep your hangers handy in an apartment with limited space; you can place them in the closet or on the shower rod in the bathroom. 

4. Fruit Crates

Carpenters can make several different objects out of these versatile wooden items. There are plenty of other ways to use them if you're not handy. You can use the sectional ones to set up temporary cabinets in a corner, as storage for cleaning supplies under the sink, or as canned goods shelving. You can then fasten a drawstring curtain on a spring curtain rod and anchor each end with a cup hook or a small nail across the front of the fruit crate cabinet to hide the contents. 

You can turn your fruit crate with shelves into an eye-catching piece of furniture like a bookshelf; stain it with varnish, then cover it with different paper mementos that you have collected from your life, and then protect it with a coat of shellac. 

5. Milk Cartons 

Like coat hangers, empty milk cartons can be turned into many other things. For a short time, some foods can be kept in one that has been thoroughly washed out in the freezer. By cutting containers lengthwise, you can save your regular containers from needing to be scrubbed and sanitized from strong odors, like fish. You can do the same lengthwise cut to create seed flats for your home gardening. 

This will provide an easy time when transplanting saplings in your garden. Also, you can make excellent plant collars for your tomato plants by cutting milk cartons crosswise; this is best in keeping cutworms away. You should sow thinly when doing this. Also, you can make excellent plant collars for your tomato plants by cutting milk cartons crosswise; this is best in keeping cutworms away. 

6. Newspaper 

A wonderful aid to clean with is the newspaper. When you have nothing else around you can do many things with newspapers; clean your windows, polish with dry newspaper, and swab with wet ones. When cleaning radiators, place damp newspapers underneath to catch the dirt as you brush it off. Similarly, a dampened newspaper can be used in place of a paper bag to catch vacuum cleaner dirt. When defrosting your refrigerator, line the top shelf under the defrosting tray with newspaper to prevent having to mop up a mess later; just be sure to remove it when you are finished so that it does not insulate the cold away from your food. 

You can protect many things using newspaper. To keep the freshness of gift bouquets during travel, wrapping a wet newspaper around the stems will do the trick; you can also do the same for plant roots to protect them against the air. If you need to keep both yourself and your car dry and protected, wrap up the wet bundle in a large plastic vegetable bag. Using 24 double pages inside a muslin cover makes an excellent substitute for a patient's or child's disposable bed pad rubber sheet. 

7. Rancid Grease 

You can make laundry soap from accumulated drippings or grease. To have 2 quarts of strained melted fat, collect 5 pounds of grease. Measure the fat after straining through cheesecloth. Add a single 1-pound can of lye to a quart of water as the grease is cooling. Cautiously pour this into an earthenware container or stone jar, and stir it with only a wooden spoon or stick, do not use metal. Lye is a very strong alkali, use caution so that you do not splash it on anything, even yourself. 

In an earthenware or enamel container, slowly pour the completely dissolved lye mix over the cooled grease. Continuously stir the new mixture until everything is combined. Add to this 2 tablespoons of borax dissolved in 1/2 cup of water and 1/2 cup of household ammonia. Then stir until it reaches the consistency of thin pudding or honey. Allow the mixture to harden for several hours after pouring into a mold made of earthenware or granite. Before it becomes fully hardened, cut the square into individual cakes. Allow the cakes of soap to harden around 6 weeks in a dry place. The soap will continue to harden with age; the older the soap is, the longer it will last. 

8. Tea

Since tea contains tannic acid, it is soothing when applied cold on a sunburn. When your eyes are tired, it also makes a soothing poultice. Lie down, then place a piece of absorbent cotton that has been dipped into strong cold tea over closed eyelids for 15 minutes. As a substitution, use tea bags that have been lightly squeezed out. 

Tea leaves are reputed as an excellent fertilizer for house plants. Strong tea is also useful when starching dark-colored materials, and it will help prevent the white film from showing on the cloth once added into the starch solution. Using a tea-dipped cloth for wiping varnished furniture and surfaces is also recommended. 

9. Toothbrush

If you are looking for an excellent cleaner, then look no further than your old toothbrush! It can be used to clean lint from parts of the sewing machine or dust off the typewriter keys. You can scrub the raised pattern on your flatware clean using a soft toothbrush. To make your cut glass pieces sparkly shine, use an old toothbrush with suds and some ammonia. 

It is perfect for dusting hard to reach corners. To clean those hard to reach crevices on the burners to your stove and the waffle iron. Removing mud from your shoes and boots is a simple chore when using this. 

10. Towels

Before washing fragile glassware, it is best to place an old towel in the bottom of your dishpan. You can also place another one in the drainboard before putting washed glasses on it. For old towels that are just a little bit worn out at the edge, stitch it over or rebind it. You can cut up towels that have become worn in the center, then just hem or bind the good pieces for use as dishcloths, washcloths, or potholders. 

You can also come up with something creative like sewing it into a mitt form with soap chips pocket for your shower or bathroom. Or, making a bag out of it for your hot water bottle is another great idea! 

Reuse, it sounds just as simple as it is. Find a way to make an item useful again rather than throwing it away. Reusing an item is possible no matter the size, be it as small as a button or large as a building. You will save money if you reuse, and also a great way to show compassion to Mother Earth. 

It just might be the right time to think like your grandmother when you next need to fix something or get something. Be creative, be practical, be Earth-friendly, and check out your local repair, rental, consignment, or vintage shops! 