While in severe economic depression and recession, our country is still extremely wealthy. Thousands of wood and mounds of paper wastes are burned each day. The beauty of the countryside scenery is currently being littered with countless tin and metal wastes that are more than enough to encircle the Earth. Making use of something you usually throw away is one of the best feelings you can be proud of, not only the pride of saving some cash but more so of helping the country recycle and reduce its top concern, which is waste. 

In this article, you will discover a few familiar objects you discard in your day-to-day life, which you can still reuse to make your life convenient or recycling. 

1. Bags 

Paper sacks can be useful in other ways, aside from their general use. Use it as a trash can by hanging it from the back of your seat in the car. It will help the children not to get tempted to litter. If someone is sick at home with a cold or the likes, you can secure a bag on one side of the bed to have a used cleansing tissue bin handy and avoid scattering the germs. 

To easily and quickly empty the cloth bag on your vacuum cleaner, shake it out over a larger bag. To keep the dust out when you are rolling up a rug, cover it with paper, then add heavy paper bags over the ends. 

2. Bottle Cap

When you have a dent, patch it with a bottle cap. Does your wooden table have a dent in it? First, use a wet cloth to cover the dented area. Then, place the metal bottle cap at the table over the dent with the scalloped edge facing upward, not downward. Lightly press the very tip of a hot iron against the center of the cap. You can also make use of a bottle cap as a plunger's "washer." 

You can nail a metal bottle cap to the handle end of your plunger, then force it into the rubber plunger if the rubber plunger keeps falling off of your plumber's helper. 

3. Coat Hangers

People have been inspired to write articles because of the many uses they have. As the wire ones will eventually rust, we will not recommend them for something so ridiculous as using them for trellises or fences. But they're flexible enough to be converted into trouser hangers by just tweaking the ends together and running a belt strap through each side end, pinching on both ends and bending the top wire upward can serve as skirt hangers with the help of some safety pins. Nothing beats a straightened coat hanger to clean and remove something wedged inside your vacuum-cleaner tube when you have no available stiff wire to use. 

You can always redneck together a drying rack for socks, stockings, and other small laundry items using two coat hangers to lash things like cake racks or discarded refrigerator shelving together. You can then conveniently hang them in a closet rod or a shower rod, which is excellent in cramped apartment spaces. 

4. Fruit Crates

Carpenters can make several different objects out of these versatile wooden items. There are plenty of other ways to use them if you're not handy. Make shelved cabinets for storing canned food items, cleaning materials under the sink, or a temporary corner emergency cabinet by using upended sectioned fruit crates. You can then fasten a drawstring curtain on a spring curtain rod and anchor each end with a cup hook or a small nail across the front of the fruit crate cabinet to hide the contents. 

You can your fruit cake and think of a bookcase, turn it using a shellacked of mementos and memorabilia like menus and dance programs on the area of the crate-turned-bookcase. 

5. Milk Cartons 

Like coat hangers, empty milk cartons can be turned into many other things. For a short time, some foods can be kept in one that has been thoroughly washed out in the freezer. By cutting containers lengthwise, you can save your regular containers from needing to be scrubbed and sanitized from strong odors, like fish. They make wonderful seed flats when you cut them lengthwise. 

This will provide an easy time when transplanting saplings in your garden. You can place the plant down into the soil with the sides of the carton still intact, just cut off the bottom of the carton first. Sow your seeds thinly for this method. Also, you can make excellent plant collars for your tomato plants by cutting milk cartons crosswise; this is best in keeping cutworms away. 

6. Newspaper 

A wonderful aid to clean with is the newspaper. If you have nothing to use for cleaning your windows, grab some newspapers for the job -- use wet newspaper lumps for swabbing clean and polish it with dry ones. When brushing your radiators clean, putting a damp newspaper under it will catch and hold down flying dust. Similarly, a dampened newspaper can be used in place of a paper bag to catch vacuum cleaner dirt. Save yourself from mopping up when defrosting by spreading some newspaper over the upper shelf of your refrigerator, below the defrosting tray, but remove it once done to avoid blocking the cold from your food. 

Newspapers can also serve as a protective agent. During transportation, you can wrap wet newspaper around the roots of a plant to keep the air away or around the stems of a bouquet to keep them fresh. If you need to keep both yourself and your car dry and protected, wrap up the wet bundle in a large plastic vegetable bag. When you do not have a waterproof bed cover for a child or patient's bed, use 24 double pages of newspaper wrapped in muslin. 

7. Rancid Grease 

You can make laundry soap from accumulated drippings or grease. Make 2 quarts of strained melted fat by collecting 5 pounds of grease. Use a cheesecloth to strain the fat and measure it after doing so. Pour a one-pound can of lye into a quart of water while the grease cools down. Cautiously pour this into an earthenware container or stone jar, and stir it with only a wooden spoon or stick, do not use metal. Lye is a very strong alkali, use caution so that you do not splash it on anything, even yourself. 

In an earthenware or enamel container, slowly pour the completely dissolved lye mix over the cooled grease. Gently mix until the grease and lye are combined completely. Dissolve 2 tablespoons of borax in 1/2 cup of water, then add 1/2 cup of household ammonia into the lye-and-grease mixture. Then stir until it reaches the consistency of thin pudding or honey. Once done, pour the mixture into a clay or granite mold and let it solidify for a few hours. Before it becomes fully hardened, cut the square into individual cakes. Keep the soap cakes in a dry area for about 6 weeks to allow them to harden. The soap will continue to harden with age; the older the soap is, the longer it will last. 

8. Tea

Since tea contains tannic acid, it is soothing when applied cold on a sunburn. When your eyes are tired, it also makes a soothing poultice. Lie down, then place a piece of absorbent cotton that has been dipped into strong cold tea over closed eyelids for 15 minutes. As a substitution, use tea bags that have been lightly squeezed out. 

Tea leaves are reputed as an excellent fertilizer for house plants. By adding a little bit of strong tea to a starching solution, you can prevent the white film that forms on the surface of dark cloth. Using a tea-dipped cloth for wiping varnished furniture and surfaces is also recommended. 

9. Toothbrush

If you are looking for an excellent cleaner, then look no further than your old toothbrush! It can be used to clean lint from parts of the sewing machine or dust off the typewriter keys. You can scrub the raised pattern on your flatware clean using a soft toothbrush. To make your cut glass pieces sparkly shine, use an old toothbrush with suds and some ammonia. 

Use one when you have corners that are hard to reach when dusting. To clean those hard to reach crevices on the burners to your stove and the waffle iron. Removing mud from your shoes and boots is a simple chore when using this. 

10. Towels

Before washing fragile glassware, it is best to place an old towel in the bottom of your dishpan. Before you place the glasses on the drainboard, place another one there. For old towels that are just a little bit worn out at the edge, stitch it over or rebind it. To reuse towels that are already worn out in the center, cut up the good sections, then hem it to use as dishcloths, washcloths, pot holders, etc. 

You can sew a shower mitt with a pocket for placing chips of soap. Or, making a bag out of it for your hot water bottle is another great idea! 

The idea of reuse is as straightforward as it sounds. Find another use for an item rather than tossing it away. Reusing an item is possible no matter the size, be it as small as a button or large as a building. You can save both the environment and your pocketbook at the same time when you practice reuse. 

It just might be the right time to think like your grandmother when you next need to fix something or get something. So, go take a visit to your local repair, rental, consignment, or vintage shop and get creative, be green, and be smart. 