Researches have proven that reading daily to your toddlers and preschoolers will help build and improve their vocabulary. Reading with your child offers many benefits and advantages. Reading aloud to children widens their vocabulary, helps them learn how to read and write, allows them to understand various topics about everyday life, and helps them learn about what's going on in the world. 

Read on to learn why it's important to read with your children. 

1. Reading Develops Language Skills

Though you talk to your children every day, the vocabulary you use with them is often repetitive and limited. Reading exposes your child to words and phrases covering different subject matters. It means they encounter words and phrases that they don't hear in their daily lives when reading a book. It would be better if your child has a wide vocabulary. 

Reading is a simple way to improve language skills and develop fluency, especially for a child who speaks more than one language. Reading is important in honing these skills. 

2. Encourages A Thirst For Knowledge

Your children will start to ask questions about books and the information they contain when you read to them. This allows you an opportunity for a learning experience to talk about what is going on around them. Their interest in different languages and cultures is also cultivated. It is rewarding to watch a child enjoy learning. Reading to your child inspires them to ask questions about what's being read to them. 

To read about various topics, you should provide a wide range of books. Allow your child to learn about new things by letting them read about different reading materials covering various topics that may pique their interest. 

3. Teaches Children About Different Topics

Just how important it is to read a wide diversity of books should never be overlooked. Your child will have a wider variety of information available to learn when you offer them books in a wide range of topics, as well as different languages for bilingual children. Select a variety of books to read. Different objects, places, or animals are topics that include informative books. 

Look for books that teach children about essential life skills such as diversity, sharing, and kindness. You can even get your child some personalized books. 

4. Develops A Child's Imagination

Nurturing your child's imagination is one of the benefits of making reading with them a habit. Reading allows your child to visualize the characters of the book. We tend to view the setting as a reality. One of the most beautiful things to watch is the excitement in a child's eyes when they already have a hunch on what comes next in the story, or letting them guess what will happen. 

You should encourage them to guess what would happen next, or tell the story themselves. It will help them to develop their creativity and have the freedom to explore their imagination wherever it takes them. 

5. Books Are A Form Of Entertainment

These days, it's so easy for your kids to get consumed with technology and gadgets. Children are drawn to smartphones, video games, television, and apps. Keep in mind that reading books that your child finds interesting can be just as fun. Selecting an exciting book to read with your child, or even allowing them to flip the pages alone, is a smarter option than all of the adverse effects of watching screens extendedly. 

One of the best benefits of how essential reading with babies and toddlers is, kids will choose to pick up a book and read for pleasure instead of any other activity. Instead of looking at the nearest screen to escape boredom, when we encourage our children to read as a habit, they will choose a book. 

6. Creates A Bond

Nothing beats time spent with your child cuddling up and reading a bedtime story. Parents can grow closer to their children when they read, talk, and spend time together. Even if parents have a hectic schedule, it is still possible for them to relax and de-stress by spending some time reading with their kids. You can strengthen your parent-child relationship by spending more time with your child. 

Spending quality one on one time reading together in the middle of the day or at bedtime is always an excellent opportunity. Talking about a book together with your child is an excellent opportunity to discover each other's thoughts, feelings, likes, and dislikes, and spending time with them shows them how valuable they are to you. This way can help develop their self-esteem and self-worth. 

7. Develops Empathy

When a child develops empathic feelings, you can also see another reason why reading is essential. It happens when children put themselves in the character's shoes. They can relate to the characters and feel how they feel. Your child starts to figure out how to relate to emotions. As empathy takes a long time to develop in children fully, they begin to understand the feelings of others at around the age of six or seven years old. 

A way for children to learn about feelings is by reading stories. Discussing how and why the characters in a story might be feeling, helps your child learn how to empathize. 

8. Sets Them Up For Success

Your children will gain more knowledge about life in general if you read to them more often. Studies have shown that reading to your infants and toddlers prepare them for school and give them an advantage later on. By reading to your child, you help them learn the skills they need in starting to read by themselves. Children will become better readers later on when they benefit from critical pre-reading skills, such as turning pages and following words from left to right. 

When a child enjoys reading, they do well in all of the different subjects, not just in language and literacy. 

9. Promotes Brain Health

Stimulate your child's brain and help them boost their early reading skills by reading to them as often as you can. Studies show that reading to infants and toddlers at home plays an essential role in boosting functions in specific areas of the brain. Your child's language development significantly depends on these areas. Reading to young children helps boost specific areas of the brain, which are essential for language development. 

Being read to at an early age helps children learn how to speak, read, and communicate. Children will excel in language, literacy, as well as all other subjects if they enjoy reading. 

10. Enhances Concentration

Reading with your child is crucial at this stage, even though it feels entirely frustrating reading to a toddler who continually wants to throw things around, swap books, and turn pages. You can help your child sit still for long periods and learn to concentrate when you read to them daily, this will help them later on in school. Start with short reading sessions with your child to help them enjoy the process more and to keep them interested in reading as well. 

When reading to your children, they will love to listen if you try to use funny and silly voices. Doing so will help your child focus, which will eventually be beneficial when school starts. 

Parents should keep in mind that reading aloud to their children helps develop their early literacy and communication skills. Through reading, your child gets to experience new and amazing things and excites their mind to a bigger world. You encourage your child in forming a positive association with books when you stimulate your child's imagination. To encourage your child's desire and love for reading, they need to perceive it as enjoyable, engaging, positive, and fun. 

You can do more harm than good if your child believes that you are determined to make them learn and become discouraged and stubborn. Keep in mind that listening is gradually acquired art. When your child is primed for it, discussing different topics will spark new curiosity about their environment and will expand their thirst for knowledge as well. 