Did you know that your body propels into high gear to burn off almost all of your unused glycogen stores and carbs once you start a keto diet and extensively cut down your carb intake? And once carbohydrates are no longer available, it will start to utilize your extra stored fat for energy. Then, after four weeks or more, your body will start getting used to "running" on fat, or starts being "fat-adapted." Fat adaptation happens once the body converts to utilizing ketones for energy. 

And you will be fully fat-adapted once your cells can maximize their utilization of ketones. It isn't just an easy shift from using sugar to fat as fuel but a gradual process where the transformation occurs at the cellular level. 

1. It Takes About Three Weeks

It can take three weeks or more for your body to transition to a fat-burning state. Initially, you'll experience the carb withdrawal phase. During this phase, you might experience keto flu, which can go on for 3-14 days. At this initial week or two, your body is utilizing glycogen or your stored sugar and is cueing you to replenish them. The next phase is when your body begins to transition from burning sugar to fat; this can last from 6 to 8 weeks. 

Once you're able to maintain this phase for a few weeks, you'll now be in a maintenance state. This means that you will be able to keep your fat-burning state as long as you carry on consuming healthy fats rather than carbs to fuel your body. 

2. You Can Be Fat Adapted Without Being In Ketosis

It is possible to achieve a fat-adapted state without going into ketosis or becoming keto-adapted, and vice versa. As long as your body is not producing ketones for energy use, you aren't considered to be in ketosis. Though, you can still achieve and maintain a fat-adapted state via other means, such as glycolysis or fat oxidation. Thus, you can attain ketosis while not being fat-adapted, or you can be fat-adapted without reaching nutritional ketosis. 

In short, following a keto diet is not a requirement to become fat-adapted. Some individuals eat paleo, primal, or vegan diets, or even go into intermittent fasting to maintain a fat-adapted state, but they aren't in ketosis. 

3. What You Need To Do To Be Fat Adapted

Begin by gradually cutting down on your consumption of high-carb and high-sugar foods, and eat high-quality proteins and healthy fats instead. If you must eat carbs, opt for those that are rich in dietary fiber. Get your healthy fats from sources such as avocados, coconut oil, olive oil, and MCT oil, and your high-quality protein from eggs, fish, and grass-fed poultry. Shifting from consuming 100g of carbs to 10g overnight is quite challenging and demanding for your body. 

Instead of cutting out your carbs abruptly, try to lower it down moderately to avoid experiencing unpleasant side effects such as nausea, brain fog, headache, and other symptoms commonly referred to as keto flu. Taking things slowly but steadily can help ease your transition period. Reduce your carbohydrates gradually, at the same time, add in more protein and healthy fats to make sure you have an adequate amount of calorie intake. 

4. How To Tell If You Are Fat Adapted

You should be able to go without eating anything for 4 to 6 hours rather than just making it to 2 to 3 hours after a meal before reaching out for a snack. Once your fat-adapted, you'll be experiencing much lesser energy slumps throughout the day. It's because your fat stores were able to supply the energy needs of your body. As soon as you hit fat-adaptation, you will enjoy a sufficient supply of fuel needed for all of your physical activities and even intense training sessions. 

And if ever you're an endurance athlete who is still depending on carbohydrates as your primary workout fuel, this means you're not fat-adapted yet. If you have been in a low-carb, high-fat diet for a while now, look out for these indicators. Signs similar to the ones mentioned indicate that you've become fat-adapted. 

5. What Fat Adapted Means

Most individuals aren't inherently fat-adapted. In contrast, the majority of us are sugar burners, which means their bodies utilize glucose for energy. The reason behind this is the standard Western diet that is heavily tied up with processed, carb-based foods. Carbs play a negative cycle on our bodies. Whenever your carb supply drops too low, your blood sugar levels also follow suit, causing symptoms such as dizziness, lightheadedness, carb cravings, sugar crash, and an inability to focus. So, to put an end to these adverse side effects and keep your energy levels stable, you need to supply your body with more carbs. Your body toils overtime to counter the sugar rush by releasing more insulin, a hormone that helps glucose in your bloodstream to be distributed throughout your body. 

As a result, you also get elevated insulin levels. When elevated insulin levels persist, it is referred to as insulin resistance, which can result in Type 2 diabetes. Additionally, with an excessive amount of insulin running in your bloodstream, your brain's chemical signals are tossed off, like those that cue you when you're full. It's the reason why you always feel hungry and tend to overeat when you eat a high-carb diet. 

Remember that being fat-adapted and in ketosis are two different things. Being in ketosis pertains to a state where your body is already producing ketones. Most individuals can reach ketosis quite fast, but getting into a fat-adapted state can take more time. On the other hand, being fat-adapted or keto-adapted is when your body becomes accustomed to utilizing fat as its primary energy source. 

Know that the human body uses both glucose and fat to fuel its functions; however, for those who use carbs as their primary source of energy or "sugar burners," their bodies will primarily burn glucose for energy. When you're fat-adapted, your body now burns fat for fuel and no longer turns to glucose for your energy needs. 