Thinking (cognitive), literacy and language, emotional, social, and physical skills are some of the numerous skills that your child will continue to develop in kindergarten. Young children who find themselves without their parents for the first time when they enter the classroom experience a lot of stress when they do not have these skills. Success for their entire school career, not just help in kindergarten, is ensured with these skills. Most parents are worried about readiness for preschool and kindergarten. 

Your child's formal schooling begins at the age of five or six when they start kindergarten. The seven skills every child needs to know before starting kindergarten are listed here, no matter if they will attend public school or private school or homeschooling. 

1. How To Share With Others

Long before preschool and kindergarten, most children have already become well acquainted with the concept of sharing. There are some, however, who have not. As taking turns and sharing are facts during their school career, your child needs to be aware of this before starting.  The concept of "borrowing" is something you should explain. 

A piece of paper or a pencil are things that another student may need to "borrow". Regardless that the principle of borrowing implies returning the item to the original owner, most likely the other student will keep what was borrowed. 

2. Expressing Emotions

Having a grasp on how to deal with their emotions is something that your child may already possess. The common emotions that are experienced daily are something that your child should be able to deal with and express. It is not always possible for a teacher to stop and help your child just because they want to. Nor will a teacher know that the expression on your child's face means that someone just said something to hurt them or that they have become overwhelmed. The tools to deal with their emotions, as well as how to express them, are things that you need to teach your child. Feeling overwhelmed, the fear of failure, disappointment, sadness, homesickness, and frustration are just some of the emotions that happen during a normal preschool or kindergarten day. 

These emotions are normal, so your child needs to know that it is ok to feel them. How to express feelings properly to others is also something that your child needs to understand. 

3. Self Sufficiency

There are many things that will help a child feel more confident in their preschool and kindergarten time, although complete self-sufficiency is not possible for a four or five-year-old child. Sometimes the difference between constantly having to ask for the teacher's help and accomplishing something alone is simply the skills that we take for granted. Being independent in front of others their age is important; no matter how beneficial asking for help is. Such things as being able to use the restroom alone, how to zip and unzip their jackets and pants, how to put on their own sweater or jacket, and how to open and close their lunch box and food containers are the types of things that need to be taught before they go.  

Your child knowing how to tie their own shoes is also a good idea. Both your child and you will find it easier to transition into kindergarten when you have all of these things covered. 

4. Courtesy Phrases

Your child will find communication with others so much easier when they learn some simple courtesy phrases such as "I do not want to play now", "Nice to meet you", "No thank you", "Thank you", and "Please". Everyone around your child will be much happier when your child can easily communicate with other children and adults. You should take the time needed for teaching your child how to be courteous and polite. 

Communicating with your child becomes easier for others to do. For the rest of your child's life, a valuable life skill that they will use is being courteous. The ability to communicate well with others gains a jump start. 

5. Letter Recognition

Some major components of the curriculum of preschool and kindergarten include letter sounds, letter recognition, and the alphabet. Classroom instruction should solidify concepts that your child is familiar with already, even though there will be extensive coverage of letters. Recognition of the uppercase letters is best, while the bare minimum is being able to sing the ABC's song. Because the foundation for learning to read and write is alphabet recognition, this makes it a crucial skill for toddlers and preschoolers to learn. 

Looking through the books that share information about letters together and encouraging your child to sing the alphabet song are ways that you can help your child gain the competency they need. Play materials that encourage your child to learn the alphabet, such as magnetic letters, are something that you should consider providing. 

6. Listening Skills

Unfortunately, preparations for kindergarten readiness often overlook listening skills. The ability to know how to listen when something is being said is not one that children are born with. Playing the "Red Light/Green Light" game is wonderful to help increase their listening skills. This way of verifying that they are truly listening to what is being said is very enjoyable. When we ourselves listen, that is the best way of teaching children good listening skills. 

Soaking up everything around them, just like a sponge, is something that all children do. You can help your child become a wonderful listener when you impact them in this manner. 

7. How To Count

So that your child is not struggling to learn numbers from scratch, you need to teach them how to count up to ten, this way, when numbers are extensively covered in the classroom, they are locking a concept into place. When you help your child to overcome the "teens" counting hurdle, or even better the 
'20s, '30s, or higher, that is even better. Children develop an understanding of how to use numbers when they experience counting in practical situations.  

When you ask your child to count out 2 cookies for each family member, or 6 liners for the muffin tin, they learn the understanding that the number 2 means 2 items which is called purposeful counting. Your child gains an understanding of how numbers are used in daily life when they count objects. 

The ability to coordinate small muscle movements, fine motor skills,  as well as whole-body movement, gross motor skills, are still being developed when a child enters kindergarten. There is considerable varition in age for when physical development milestones are reached for each child. When a child is ready to go on to progress to activities that are more of a challenge will normally been seen first by their parents. Consult your pediatrician if your child seems to be slower in developing physically than the other children their age. Learning how to write and draw to express themselves can make kindergarten exciting for your young student. 

Learning how to be independent is what kindergarten is all about. Making friends, decoding symbols, and recognizing patterns are all critical skills. When your child masters these 7 skills before kindergarten, the transition will be so much easier for them. 