Are you always making plans, but find that you never bring them to completion? You just don't bring it to fruition even if it's reading a book, working out more often, or starting a business. The closer you get to success, the more you sabotage yourself. The majority of people you know just might fit this description. Is this description reflective of you? To make substantial changes for your life, overcome your fear of success by using these strategies. 

5. Visualize It

See yourself as far more than your goal of success. Visualize a new goal of making one million per year instead of your current goal of $100,000. Picture yourself slim enough that you abs are visible when you are wanting to lose 25 pounds.  Do this routine in bed every morning and every night. The visualization should be as real as you can make it. 

All five of your senses should be included. Relax and don't give up even if it doesn't feel comfortable. It will feel more natural as time goes by. It will be easier to reach your goal after that. 

4. Don't Think Act

Since most people do not like to be the center of attention, they will fear success. For whatever reason, we've concluded that being noticed isn't desirable, so we keep our head lowered. Do something you never thought you would. You might hit the streets with bed head. You can practice how to stand out in your daily life because there are many ways to choose. 

You could choose a new style of clothing. Walk around the mall in the middle of summer wearing a pair of pink mittens. Or, simply go to the store wearing your best clothes. Or pick something that you are either really bad or good at, such as bowling, and do that in public. 

3. Reframe Failure

If you are fearful of failing, it might be because you are afraid of being successful. Remember that when we fail at something, it's just a different outcome than we were looking for. You are not defined by it. Your failures do not define who you are. 

It just might be that you require a different approach, a little more time, or practice. You will find that there is nothing to fear once your view of failure is altered in this manner. 

2. Practice Standing Out

Rather than thinking concentrate on action. If we don't think about success, we won't fear it. If your business requires you to send one hundred unsolicited emails, then just do it. It becomes harder to do once you stew over it awhile. You need to make a decision and then do it. For most people, finding a balance between thoughts and actions will be consistently challenging. 

You will never make any progress when you spend too much time to picture what your project will look like and how awesome it would be if you don't put in enough time to work on it. 

Being in the right place at the right time and doing something about it are the two most critical requirements for major success. 

1. Imagine Being Successful

Make sure your future includes a genuine vision. Any fear can be overcome when you are motivated. The vision you create in your mind of the future must be worth the effort to overcome obstacles. If you have an interesting future in mind, fear isn't going to be a problem. "Rome was not built in a day" is an old saying.  When you work towards your goal in a series of smaller goals, you will get that life you are wanting to create, just not in one single day. 

To achieve your desired end, you need to set weekly and daily goals and not get engrossed with how far you are. 

When you are fearful, produce a futuristic vision that will get you through these fears. Dealing with discomfort is something you need to learn how to deal with. You can only live one life, keep that in mind. Do not put limits on your life by letting fear in it. 