Did you know that your state of mind and emotions can be affected by your environment? Do you ever notice that some places seem to get on your nerves? Or do you find some places to be particularly peaceful and relaxing? Chances are, the colors of these places evoke different feelings and emotions. In our subconscious, the colors we see can significantly affect or influence our perceptions of reality. Understanding color psychology and surrounding yourself with appropriate colors can help you get the most out of their unique benefits, such as stress reduction.  The goal of this article is to make you understand basic color theory and psychology. It also explains the powerful effect of colors on your emotions. 

Then, we will cover the reasons why colors affect us emotionally. Lastly, you will learn about soothing and calming colors, as well as the benefits of adult coloring. Read on and understanding the basic ideas behind the psychology of color, so you will be able to reap the benefits of color therapy.  

1. Why Colors Impact Us Emotionally

There are dark, bright, pale, and muter colors, and each color is interpreted differently by our brains. There are dark, bright, pale, and muter colors, and each color is interpreted differently by our brains.	 The type of image you're trying to project will reflect on the color of the items you're trying to buy. The color of the car your drive as well as the color of your clothes tells how you want to be perceived by other people.  Color is an effective tool in communicating; it is utilized for influencing physiological reactions and mood as well as for signaling action. 

Some colors are linked to increased metabolism, eyestrain, and hypertension. Colors can influence your decisions, creates specific moods, and helps emphasize and convey information. 

2. Color Psychology in Marketing

The psychology of color is a common advertising trick that brands use for easier recall of their advertisements and to encourage buyers to pick their products.  Green is often used by banks, financial apps, and other companies that work with money or promote sales. Green is the color of money, so it is often used by brands to encourage shopping. Colors could influence buyers, but it is also worth noting that price and availability play an important role in sales. 

Most business owners go with blue because this color conveys professionalism and trustworthiness. Blue is associated with reliability and impartiality, so major companies like Facebook, Twitter, and Reddit use this color to attract new users and at the same time earn the attention and trust of current ones. 

3. Peaceful and Calming Colors

Pampering and beauty products in the market often use peaceful and calming colors in their marketing and advertising materials.  Pastel, light, and muted hues of blues and greens are the most popular calming colors.  Green and blue evoke a sense of serenity and calmness, so use these colors in the bedroom or in the office to promote concentration.
 The objects people buy, the clothes they wear, and the way they style their surroundings are all influenced by colors. 

The choices of people, say picking a car color that seems sleek, sporty, or reliable, are usually determined by colors that evoke certain feelings or moods. You can also use colors to express a certain mood for your room; you can paint it pale green to evoke a peaceful mood. 

4. Coloring Books for Adults

Now that you know how colors and emotions are connected, you can now get started on adult coloring books to help reduce your stress and promote relaxation. If you're feeling uneasy or anxious, then you can turn to coloring books for adults to help calm your mind. Adult coloring books foster creativity and they are easy on the pocket too. Colors play a vital role in how we feel about certain things, so use this as a basis for rearranging your home decors or for updating an entire wardrobe. 

Consider surrounding yourself with the colors that impact your mood positively, and get yourself an adult coloring book to reduce anxiety, create focus, and bring about mindfulness. 

Now that you're aware of how colors influence your state of mind and emotions, you now understand why different spaces evoke different feelings. The colors of those places are responsible for such emotions. Colors have a significant influence on our lives. You aren't aware of it most of the time though. Having a basic understanding of color psychology will help you choose which calming colors to use for your space. This article has covered the role of color psychology in color therapy. You've learned about color psychology and marketing. 

You also learned how colors evoke emotions. Lastly, this article discussed peaceful colors as well as the benefits of adult coloring books. Now that you've read the ideas shared in this article, you now know how to use color for healing and therapy.  