Our friends help us to bounce back from disease and health problems faster as well as helping us to make better choices in our life to strengthen us as well as helping us deal with stress. Friendship is as significant as our mental health. As one research even indicated, it can change our perspective in life for the better if we spend time with our positive friends. You might feel that understanding the how-tos in making more friends is the secret to building your social circle while also prevents you from being lonely and misunderstood. 

Over the next few weeks, in addition to making new friends, you'll be able 
to continue doing so for years by following these strategies. If you want to begin learning how to create friendships continue reading. You will be able to find out how to make more friends even if you already have some. 

1. Explore New Interests and Activities

Having hobbies or new interests is a really good way to make new friends. Try to pick a new class you can attend for three months or so, and meet new people. It isn't necessary to continue doing it for a long time. Get-togethers and group activities are usually free for everyone the majority of the time.  

You can meet people who are also in making new friends in these types of activities. If you're wanting to make new friends the simplest thing to do is to go where other folks want to do the same. 

2. Who Is Right Or Wrong Isn't Always Important

Adhering to your way of thinking and rejecting the of ideas of others is a huge roadblock to making new friends. Being happy should not be equated to being right or wrong. Being happy requires keeping an open mind to other individual's opinions and ideas so they can become your friends. In case you have your perspective and stance on things, that's fine. When you are able to consider the point of view and opinions of others, you will be informed enough to have an even stronger opinion. When you take into consideration other people's skills, experiences, and wisdom you won't have to depend solely on your own limited knowledge and opinion. 

People bring value to your life they want to be respected and listened to. When people share their ideas you can take the first step by appreciating them and being open-minded. 

3. Connect With A Connector

Getting connected with someone that has a good network is a fast way to meet new people. Doing it this way can save you from too much hassle. Connectors are the types of people who are always connecting with the crowd and making new friends. You will instantly meet a lot of people once you get to know these connectors and befriend them. 

Just by being around them will even make this possible. Moreover, you can also pick up a handful of their strategies in meeting and making friends with fascinating individuals. 

4.  Decide You Want More Friends

To be even more precise, making new friends is something you need to determine with yourself. To have a life that is interesting making friends is essential. Having new friends enables you to have fun in a fresh new way, gives you another perspective, as well as new ideas and activities. Take note, surrounding yourself with unsuccessful people does not make you become successful. 

Having a bunch of friends that are successful will cause you to be inspired to become who you want to be as well. At this point, the first step is deciding to include making new friends among your priorities in life. 

5. Keep Your Circle Small (Be Selective)

As crazy as it sounds, we're going to talk about seeing even more people in this article. When you choose the people you want to hang with, instead of seeing fewer people,  you'll see more. By choosing only to meet a particular group of people (e.g., honest, reliable, open-minded, etc.), others will realize that you are not just meeting them to avoid loneliness. Instead, they understand it's because you value their character. People like you more when you are discerning. 

People will try to understand you more and get closer to you and will continue being friends with you for longer. What will the outcome be? When you have the help of a good group of friends it will be hard to feel lonely. 

Among the most significant, yet remotely acknowledged areas of psychology is about the role that our friends play in each of our lives. Friendships can leave a significant influence on both your health and well-being; however, developing or maintaining friendships is not always that easy. Be aware and knowledgeable about the value of friendships in your life and how you can develop and nurture these friendships. Your health is benefited by having good friends. 

Not only do friends celebrate with you during good times, but they can also be your support system during tough times. Our overall well-being is enhanced by the important part friends play in our lives. Individuals who have a stable social support system are shown to have reduced risks from a handful of significant health issues, such as depression, unhealthy BMI or body mass index, and even high blood pressure. Studies have indicated that older people with fewer relationships probably won't live as long as those with abundant social lives. 