Skills that are included in early literacy is the ability to understand words and to listen. A child will learn how to put words together with punctuation marks and turn it into something that has meaning to them, be it an image in his mind or a voice. Bringing the value and joy of books to your child, with all the language, words, and sounds that come along for the ride. We'll look into the things you need to understand about reading and your child in this article. Starting at birth and continuing through the early childhood years, the slow continuous process of learning to comprehend and use language is called literacy. 

Kindergarten along with reading and writing is what we will go over first. Then, we'll discuss speaking and listening. We will cover letters after that and finish up with phonemic awareness. In this article, you will be aware of the concepts you need to know about reading and your child. You need to be aware of these 5 things about reading and your child. 

1. Phonemic Awareness

Phonemic awareness is the best predictor of early reading skills according to research. The smallest units of sounds called phonemes, create syllables, and these syllables make words. Children will see that reading is so much easier when they come to know that spoken language is comprised of particular sounds and syllables. As time goes by, a lot of kids will develop a perception of phonemics naturally. Children can be helped to develop their recognition of phonemics through simple activities like rhyming, poems, and repetitive readings of their favorite stories. 

Some children may need to partake in activities designed to build this fundamental skill. Children use reasoning and thinking skills to figure out how to read and to write words they have not yet learned. A young child might use a suffix or prefix that is familiar to them, remember the way to say a blend of letters that was in another word or think of the meaning of another phrase or word.

 

2. Kindergarten

The majority of children will naturally develop some knowledge and language skills beginning or during kindergarten. After turning the pages in a storybook to see what will happen next, they now comprehend that print has a meaning. To pass on a message they mimic "writing" by inventing the spelling of word or scribble. When dictating and narrating their stories, use the language and voice of those stories. 

Children recognize that written language is made up of a blend of letters that make words and in words that are unknown to them, they can name certain letters within it. When writing, they also imitate letters that have characteristics of the actual ones. 

3. Reading And Writing

While young children are being instructed in writing and reading, they are also adding to their speaking and listening skills. They listen to their favorite stories at school, at Head Start, in child care, and at home so they can retell them later on. Watching adults read and write not only for enjoyment but to also accomplish work, scribbling down letters and words for writing, drawing pictures, pointing out the signs used as a logo on a sign for a favorite restaurant, and playing with alphabet blocks are things that they can do. As youngsters play alongside others they explore and discover various things about language. 

Children are able to talk about their discoveries and experiences through language skills because that is the fundamental way to develop intelligence. Talking about past and future events, as well as concepts such as up and down, are words that children learn. A child's emerging literacy skills are supported by many of the games children play. A child's literacy skills are assisted by sequencing things like a set of colored blocks and buttons, as well as matching, sorting, and classifying them. 

4. Listening And Speaking

As a parent lifts their baby and speaks softly to them while looking into their eyes, that is the beginning of literacy. It may be hard to believe but the growth of language skills can be enhanced by this relaxed and voluntary activity. A baby learns how enjoyable it is to talk with others and have the exchange of conversation through this pleasing interaction. As youngsters talk about their wants and needs through gestures and sounds, there is an ongoing development of speaking and listening skills. 

They will happily babble to others and themselves, speak their first words, then exponentially add new spoken vocabulary words. Regardless of intelligence or conscious effort, the majority of kids that have experienced language from birth are speaking fluently by the age of three. 

5. Letters

After learning to recite the alphabet, your child should now be able to recognize and name all the letters in the alphabet. Your child is conquering the alphabet when they can tell you the letters of the alphabet in written texts and in their name. As a child points to words while being read to or reading by themselves they come to identify the sounds that go with the letters.











 Now, your child will be connecting sounds to letters and will be phonetically spelling words. Your child will come to know what sounds letters make by naming all the things in a room the starts with the same letter. 

Choosing a word in a text then picking out rhyming words that begin with the same letter is another indication. Whether a youngster is pointing to letters while being read to or just reading by themselves they will learn that sounds are connected with letters. Another indication is they spell words phonetically, relating the sounds they hear in the word to the letters. 

Turning all those words and punctuation marks on the page into something that gives back meaning, like an image or voice in his mind, is something your child will be required to do. The ability to understand words and listen is referred to as having early literacy skills. To have your child ready for the value and joy of books, they need familiarity with language, words, and sound. The items you should know about your child and reading were covered in this article The slow, continual learning process that begins at birth and continues through the early years of childhood to comprehend and use language is called literacy. 

Some of the first things we discussed were writing and reading, along with kindergarten. Listening and speaking were discussed next. Following that, we explained letters and finished up with the recognition of phonemics. You now have the tools you need to understand reading and how it relates to your child through the ideas you have familiarized yourself within this article. 