Experiences during the childhood years are crucial for brain development. You can help wire your child's brain to develop deep-rooted, pleasurable bonds with books and reading by providing them with positive reading experiences. Due to the brain's flexibility and its ability to adapt to the demands of its surrounding conditions, distinct experiences can cause it to develop in different ways. Your child's brain can trigger the release of stress hormones, like cortisol, once they go through a negative reading experience. 

Conversely, if your child has experienced reading in a pleasant circumstance, their brain will set off chemicals of happiness and trust, such as dopamine and oxytocin. It is innately human for us to seek to experience things that are pleasurable to us continually. Children will tend to become more enthusiastic about reading when they have enjoyed past experiences. Read on and discover 9 useful tips that can help you create positive reading experiences for your child and keep them motivated to read more. 

1. Limit Screen Time

Only a very few children would pick a book over a tablet, a game console, or a TV. These mostly mindless things are just so addicting. Thus, as a responsible parent, you should set rules and healthy limits on your child's screen time. If your child is honest and reliable enough when it comes to reading and doing their homework every night, then a simple rule, such as no gadgets or TV until they're done with homework or reading, would suffice. Since children don't often use an assignment notebook now or are always quick to claim that they have done their homework, most parents are left clueless whether their child has some reading. 

In instances like this, firmer guidelines are in order, such as no TV or gadgets on weekdays, or absolutely no screen time at all if grades are below a specific digit. Initially, your kids will surely disagree with it. Nevertheless, you have to be resolute and firm. 

2. Use Rewards

It would be beneficial to inspire your child with anything that sparks their interests. Sweet treats? Online video games or activities? A trip to their favorite kid park? Cash? Reading is a skill that is essential in almost every point of an individual's life. Undesirable outcomes will just make reading dreary and less exciting.

 If you must, try giving rewards to your kids after completing books or finishing a chapter or even pages. A handful of evidence has confirmed that children's behavior significantly improves once parents implement positive feedbacks and rewards on their kids. 

Studies indicate that programs that teach parents these strategies, which have been used successfully for many years, not only result in a short-term improvement in the behavior of resistive kids and those diagnosed with conduct disorder or ADHD but also provide long-term benefits. 

3. Pick Books That Are Movies

Once your child completed reading the book of a movie, treat them to watch the film with their friends or with you. Then have fun discussing the differences and similarities between the movie and the book. Ask your child what they would differently do if they were the movie's director. Choosing to read books with movie adaptations allows you and your child to compare the similarities and differences in the story. 

Thus, providing a productive way for you to communicate with your kid, which can't always happen when they're just reading. Watching the movie version before reading the book can provide the readers with a visual image of the story that will help them understand it better. 

4. Discuss Books With Your Children

Show your child that you're interested in what they're reading. "What are you currently reading for pleasure?" is a good question to start with. What books do you read in school? What's the story of that book? What makes you like about the story? If I read it, do you think I would like it? What part of the story strikes you the most? Does the story remind you of some personal experiences? Do your best not to make it sound like an interrogation, but a healthy discussion. To make it more engaging, share your own positive reading experiences back when you were a student too. You can also share with your child your current reads. Sharing and talking about the books you've read to your child as well as continually reading to them even after they can already read by themselves are effective ways of showing them the importance of reading. 

Casual discussions about books, like any ordinary conversations, can be done anytime, anywhere - while waiting for the bus, over dinner, or while tidying up their rooms. Books can bring out passionate feelings that need to get shared with others. One great way to do so is to talk about what books you have recently read and how it affects your personal feelings. 

5. Make A Family Reading Time

Nothing could be better than spending family time reading. A family sitting down together in one room and reading together paints a very striking image. Whether it's a time for independent reading for each family member or it's a read-aloud reading bout, it doesn't matter. Make your family reading time a light activity. 

Get your fireplace going. Prepare some hot tea or hot cocoa for the kids. Find a comfortable spot where you can nestle in with your book. Your child will learn valuable lessons in communication and life by experiencing this kind of family activity. 

6. Model Reading

To what extent can you model reading to your kids at home? Children will learn how to do things from their parent's examples. If you start exercising, they will exercise with you. Are you getting a new gadget? They will ask for one too. If you decorate your room, they will also imitate decorating. It is the same thing when it comes to reading. Whatever you read, make sure to show your kids that you spend some of your time reading. It's not yet too late to get started. 

Having your collection of books is part of modeling reading to your kids. The journal 'Research in Social Stratification and Mobility' published a study asserting a direct link between having books at home and the years of schooling a child can complete. 

7. Read To Them

It is always beneficial for parents to continue to read to their children even if they become teens. Some children are motivated by having an accountability partner and work well with collaboration. Parents and children can choose to read out loud alternately, or the kids can have their parents just read the book for them. Although most parents are preoccupied with work and other things to do, they must show their kids that they are willing to spare their time reading. 

And why should they believe that it's essential to do that? Reading together with your child will increase their inclination to read by seeing that a person they love and trust is finding enjoyment and comfort in reading! 

8. Make It Fun

Make sure that you are giving your kids the kind of books that they enjoy, no matter in what form they may be, even picture books will do! For example, you can let your seventh-grader child, who is a dog-lover, read Where the Red Fern Grows at home just for fun if you noticed that they are already showing disinterest in reading. Do this without any conditions or restrictions. If they choose to read magazines, comics, or nonfiction books, let them be. If your child perceives reading as a fun and enjoyable activity, they have a higher chance of developing a love for reading. 

We all know that most children enjoy petty, mindless things. Finding rhyme or joke books or anything that will make your kid laugh and feel amused is a great idea! Also, you can try looking for the book version of your kid's favorite TV shows and movies, and enjoy reading aloud together. 

Allowing children to choose what they want to read freely is not negotiable as long as they're reading. Nothing compares to sitting down to enjoy a good book. Although a hobby provides plenty of entertainment, doctors and scientists have noted various positive effects of reading. Books offer a lot of benefits on top of inspiring creativity and critical thinking, as well as increasing one's empathy. Positive experiences with books provide a solid background that ensures young learners are well-equipped to develop competent abilities across language, reading, and writing with ease and confidence that will give them strong literacy skills as they progress through their education. 

When kids develop a love for reading, they will be provided with various opportunities that will stimulate their minds and activate their creativity and help determine their overall academic success. 