Healthy weight can be effectively achieved and maintained through a low-carb keto lifestyle. Being on a low-carb diet helps to control appetite and promote satiety leading to reduction in calorie intake as well as insulin, and blood sugar levels by increasing the rate of burning fat. No matter what diet you choose, plateaus during weight loss are very common. 

There are some foods that, while allowed on a keto diet can still lead to stalls or plateaus. Weight loss plateaus can be caused by this list of 6 low-carb keto approved foods. 

1. Homemade Keto Treats

It is possible to find numerous recipes online for keto and low-carb treats and desserts. Most of these recipes avoid many of the additives included in processed low-carb treats while being sugar-free and gluten-free. As a solution to sweet cravings, these creations seem to be easy to prepare and delicious. You will tend to eat more keto-friendly treats when they are always available than you realize while keeping them on hand for celebrations and parties is wonderful. 

Consuming only limited quantities of keto treats during a weight-loss plateau, if any, is preferable. Stick to healthy fats, vegetables, and proteins while focusing on eating as cleanly as possible when your goal is weight loss, you do have to give them up completely. 

2. Alcoholic Beverages

If consumed in moderation, you can enjoy alcohol while on a low-carb keto diet. There are some instances where weight loss can be slowed down by drinking alcohol. Another item, alcohol, is low carb. Atkins does not allow during weight loss plateaus or when starting his diet plan. Not only are your inhibitions around food relaxed when consuming alcohol too often, there is also the possibility of encouraging fat storage and interference with ketosis. 

Selecting foods that you would normal avoid and over indulging  are more likely to occur. Until you are actively losing weight, you should limit your alcohol intake to only a drink or two during a week. 

3. Added Fats

A high fat content is normal for low-carb keto diets. Keto diets generally have 65% to 80% of the calories provided by fat, while low-carb diets normally average 50% of calories from fat as a general rule. In the keto and low carb community online, the philosophy that weight loss is promoted by increased fat consumption has been circulating. This is not necessarily true. Having too much fat in your food can actually be detrimental. You must have a calorie deficit in order for weight loss to occur. 

While you will burn more fat, it unfortunately is not your body's fat but the fat in what you consume when you have excessive amounts of oil, cream and butter in your diet. Weight loss plateaus are frequent occurrences when you constantly add more fat to foods that are already fatty such as avocados, fish and meat. 

4. Processed Low-Carb and Keto Foods

For people following a keto lifestyle that are very busy, the commercial options for bars, low-carb meals and similar products may appear to be ideal. Food quality and carb content are both important if you want the weight loss to be in a healthy manner, as well as sustainable. Numerous products labeled as being "keto" or "low carb" flooding the market due to the popularity growth of this form of lifestyle eating include questionable ingredients that can hinder weight loss. It is imperative that you check the labels to see what ingredients are in the low carb processed products when you eat them. 

Do not rely on the manufacturer listed claims of "net carbs", read what is actually contained. Focus on eating whole fresh foods and you should begin to lose weight, this limits or completely avoids the processed convenience foods. 

5. Cheese

Another low-carb food, such as nuts, that is hard to only consume in small amounts,  is healthy and satisfying cheese. This is notorious for causing weight loss plateaus among those on low-carb and keto diets regardless that no studies have shown a connection between weight gain and high-fat dairy. There are abundant stories about people on long stalls, for weeks and sometimes months even, that remove cheese from their diets and suddenly return to losing weight again. There are a few who are effected more by the whey and casein in cheese raising their insulin levels, but this does not appear to be universal with all people.  

Susceptible people can find it hard to lose weight when they overindulge in this delicious food due to this. When you do not want to completely give up cheese, but need to push through a plateau, try this, limit your cheese to a single ounce size serving only twice a week. 

6. Nuts

Another keto-friendly food choice that is both healthy and delicious are nuts. Several micronutrients, including magnesium, potassium and vitamin E,   along with monounsaturated fats and lots of fiber can be found in many of the varieties while still being low in net carbs.  Not only is it hard for most people to only eat just a couple at a time, but they are unfortunately high in calories. Try limiting your consumption of nuts to only a single ounce (28 grams) per day, when you stall during weight loss while reaching your carb limit, or just completely skip them until you start losing again. 

Not reaching the goals that you are looking for even though you consistently follow the plan and still hit a weight loss plateau can be extremely frustrating. Not all low carb foods are weight-loss friendly in spite of being keto friendly. Without altering progress, certain foods are more easily handled by some people. To learn which foods, if any, you have limits on you need to experiment. 

Avoid pitfalls like fasting for several days in a row or eating only a single food. Believe though that eventually you will continue to lose weight if you stay active, manage stress and follow a well-balanced low carb healthy keto diet. 