When detoxifying your skin, what you put in your skin is equally as important as what goes on it. Drinking plenty of water is the most successful way to detox your skin. To boost your water detox, try adding nutrients from herbs, fruits, and vegetables. We will look into the various types of detoxifying water for your skin in this article. The first thing we'll explore is a mix of spa water. 

Then, we'll look into a blueberry and orange mix. Following that, we will go over herbs and raspberries and finish up with a combination of fruit and cinnamon water. You will be able to use these various types of waters to detoxify your skin now that you have familiarized yourself with the ideas in this article. Here are some combinations of wonderful infused water that will aid in detoxifying your skin. 

1. Orange and Blueberry

There are two ingredients in this simple detox water, blueberries and oranges. The citrus juice from oranges provides extra collagen and antioxidants to assist in the firming of your skin and give it that glow. Blueberries are not only a superfood, but they are filled with antioxidants. All you do is place blueberries and orange slices in the bottom of your pitcher. 

Just add water and ice. To allow the fruit's vitamins to enter the water, let it sit in the fridge for several hours. Have a glass and enjoy your efforts. 

2. Spa Water Mix

You have probably tried cucumber water if you have been to a spa. This is a refreshing and crisp detox water that has a wonderful flavor and is great for promoting healthy skin. By adding some other ingredients like lemon and mint, you can take it up a notch because they are also good for your skin. You can add lemon slices to the water after the cucumbers and mint have been infused or squeeze some lemon into the water. Add cucumber, lemon, and oranges to the water pitcher. 

Gently mash the vegetables and fruits with a long spoon so more flavor will be released. Gently mash the mint so that the natural oils can be released, then place it in the pitcher. To begin the infusion, add water to the pitcher and stir. You can store it in the fridge for two days, or you can drink or serve it right away. 

3. Raspberry and Herbs

You will be able to customize this fruity detox water according to your taste, which is a good thing. Raspberries are going to be the main fruit in this detox water because it has antioxidants that are beneficial for your skin, and vitamin C which causes the 
formation of natural collagen. Anthocyanins are found in raspberries, which reduces any of the redness and inflammation found in the skin. If you're looking for more flavor, you can add a herb like mint or basil Be sure to thoroughly wash the basil and raspberries before you place them in the glass pitcher. 

Use a wooden spoon to mix the fruit together. Add filtered water to the pitcher and put it in the refrigerator for a minimum of four hours or overnight so it can infuse. Stir it slowly before it's served. 

4. Fruity Cinnamon Water

This detox water is great to use during the fall. It has cinnamon, seasonal fruits, and herbs in it. The main flavors in the water are apple and cinnamon with a little bit of mint, but there are a lot of combinations you can use. You could also add some lemon slices and strawberries to the water if they are available. Put the cinnamon stick and the apple slices in the pitcher, but save a couple to put into your glass later. 

Cover the fruit with ice to about halfway and then fill with water. Before serving place it in the refrigerator for one hour. The water will retain the flavor as you refill it two or three times. 

When detoxing your skin, it isn't necessarily about what you put on it, but more on what goes inside it. One of the best things you can do for your skin is water, particularly if you add some nutrients to it. Did you know that you can infuse water with herbs, vegetables, and fruits? We looked into the various types of detox water to help enhance your skin in this article. The first thing we looked at was a spa water mixture. 

After that, we looked into a mix of blueberries and oranges. Following that, we discussed herbs and raspberries and finished up with fruity water with cinnamon. You can use these infused waters of various types to detoxify your skin now that you have familiarized yourself with the ideas in this article. 