Recently, the popularity for people to improve neurological function, sharpen the brain,  lose weight, and manage blood sugar issues using the ketogenic, and other high-fat diets, has been increasing. The trend of consuming healthy fats, the avocado obsession, is all too real - but is this diet a smart choice? If you want to start the keto journey but having second thoughts about this, then this article will surely help. 

With the right information at hand, your willpower and transitioning to this challenging lifestyle can become the best path you'll ever take. This article will teach you the beginnings of the keto diet and the right foods to eat if you're on keto. The safety of the keto diet will be shown. It is complicated anytime you alter your diet. If you are considering the keto diet, here are 6 important facts you should be aware of. 

1. The First Few Weeks Are Challenging

The first few weeks of a ketogenic diet are the most difficult as many people find out. Some unpleasant symptoms can occur while the body changes from using ketones for fuel rather than glucose. It is easier to accomplish your change in lifestyle by powering through this challenging phase when you begin your journey knowing this is normal. Commonly called the keto flu, these symptoms include a general lack of energy, nausea, fatigue, brain fog, and headache. 

In most cases, keto flu only lasts around two weeks, and so its accompanying side effects. Before you start on a new diet plan you should consult your physician, the ketogenic diet is not an exception. 

2. The Keto Diet Is Safe

Studies have shown not only the effectiveness but also the safety of the ketogenic diet for obese patients. You can control blood sugar and reduce, sometimes eliminate, the symptoms of epilepsy by using the keto diet. The supervision of a nutritionist dietician or medical professional is needed for this to be done correctly. As studies show, 'keto-flu' and other unpleasant side effects of the keto diet can highly occur.  

Higher LDL cholesterol levels and kidney stones are among the other side effects. Returning to a standard American diet when no longer following a ketogenic diet can allow you to put the weight back on very quickly. 

3. Carbs Will Be A Thing Of The Past

When you go on a keto diet, refined carbohydrates are no longer allowed. Fats (and lots of it!) take center stage. Organic eggs and dairy products like whole milk and cultured butter, pasture-raised meats, healthy oils like coconut oil and olive oil, fatty fish, avocados, coconut, and raw nuts and seeds, are now what makes of your diet. The keto diet does not allow any foods that are high in carbohydrates. 

Refined oils such as soybean and canola, sugar-free foods, low-fat diet foods, artificial sugars, chemicals, sugar, soda, beans, grains, starches, legumes, and alcohol, are also included. Consuming leafy greens, bell peppers, cucumbers, berries, and other low-carb fruits and veggies, is allowed but in moderate quantities. 

4. The Keto Diet Is Healthy

Minimizing carbohydrates in your system will result in a significant drop in blood sugar and insulin levels.  For reducing pre-diabetes and type-II diabetes, this could be a key. A study done in 2005 showed that ten obese patients who have Type-2 diabetes experienced better insulin sensitivity by an impressive 75 percent in just two weeks of being into the keto diet. Another study in the same year found that out of 21 participants with Type-2 diabetes who follows the keto diet for 16 weeks, there were seven who were able to stop on their diabetes medications. Other studies have also showcased how helpful the keto diet is for losing weight. 

In 2003, one research established that those who are on keto lost 2.2 times more weight after six months, compared to those who are just observing a calorie-restricted low-fat diet. Participants who were on the keto diet even experienced improvements in their HDL cholesterol and triglyceride levels. According to a 2012 study, the keto diet may reduce symptoms of Alzheimer's and slow down this degenerative disease. On top of all that, it can potentially aid in post-injury brain recovery as well as improve symptoms of Parkinson's disease and polycystic ovarian syndrome. 

5. How It Works

Carbohydrates that provide the body with glucose are dramatically lowered during a keto diet and replaced with fat. The process alters how the body functions completely. The body goes into a metabolic state called ketosis, where it no longer relies on glucose for fuel but switches over to using ketones instead. In ketosis state, the body utilizes fat as fuel by converting this macronutrient into ketones in the liver. 

It will support the energy needs of the body's hungriest organ - the brain. While there are many variations in doing the keto diet, such as adding high-intensity exercise for extra carb intake, the ultimate goal remains - use fat as fuel. 

6. How It Started

Remember carbohydrates were belittled during the 1990s craze over the Atkins diet? Other dietary proprieties are shared with the ketogenic diet. Meaning, 75 percent of your daily calories should come from fat, with moderate (20 percent) protein intake, and just a mere five percent portion for carbohydrates. This diet was developed as a treatment for epileptic children, regardless that it sounds like it would have been created by a Cross Fit marathoner. 

The ketogenic diet was designed by Dr. Russell Wilder in 1924 at the Mayo Clinic as a standard of care for minimizing seizures of epileptic patients. This form of diet became unfashionable in the 1940s with the popularity of anti-seizure medications. 

The keto bandwagon has enticed countless numbers of people to join in. You should first gather all of the facts, regardless of the reason you are considering a change to your diet. Following the keto diet, just like any other diet, can be challenging. You should now understand that the keto diet can be used to control your weight safely. 

You are also made aware that the first few weeks of the diet can be a challenging phase for newbies like you. But, most importantly, you have discovered the many health benefits that the diet has to offer. You can now start your ketogenic journey with a clearer understanding of your new lifestyle. Living a healthy lifestyle, feeling better about yourself, and looking better than ever is just within your reach now! 