Coloring has become a hot trend among adults. Once you become better at coloring, you will experience greater satisfaction in every aspect of your life, plus your health will improve as well. This article aims to teach you techniques that will take your coloring skills to the next level. Take a step towards improving your skills and getting better results by learning these fundamental coloring techniques. What you will be learning first is shading, then basic watercolor pencil techniques. 

This article also covers creativity and coloring supplies. Lastly, this article discusses how to add texture and how to use a colorless blender. Familiarizing yourself with the fundamental techniques shared in this article will help you improve your coloring skills. 

1. Play around with watercolor pencils

There's just something so magical and fun about using watercolor pencils. They may look like ordinary colored pencils, but they transform into watercolor paint when you add water. There's no need for you to get a big set of watercolor pencils since mixing the watercolors can blend into a wide spectrum of colors. Not all coloring books are designed for watercolor use, so you have to make sure you're using artist quality watercolor pencils. 

This will save you time from having to re-apply more layers to get your desired color. Artist-grade watercolor pencils are higher in quality and are more pigmented than student-grade watercolor pencils. You will be able to get colors that are deeper and richer with less effort with more pigment. 

2. Shading

With one colored pencil, you will be able to achieve shading easily. This technique is called the pressure method. If you want the color to be lighter in certain areas, apply less pressure and when you want the color to be darker, apply more pressure with additional layers of color. We suggest that you color in a circular method when using this technique. 

This will make the blending look seamless because the shades are blended well together. You will be able to give your image definition and surprising depth by shading. 

3. Add some texture

You can transfer the texture of any flat item by placing your paper on top of it and coloring over the top of it gently. Look for some interesting leaves and get creative. You can make your artwork pop by adding some texture. You can use your powdery pencil shavings to add color. 

All you have to do is put some on your picture where you want additional color and use your finger to blend. This will result in giving your picture a very soft and light effect. 

4. Get creative and use other supplies

Although many people prefer to color using colored pencils, it doesn't necessarily mean that you also have to when you work on your coloring book. You can opt for crayons, non-bleeding markers, and even go glam with glitters! Have fun with your coloring by trying different things out. Using quality colored pencils, such as Prismacolors, is also highly recommended. 

You'll thank us after you make the switch to using quality coloring materials. Adult coloring may not need artistic skills for you to enjoy it, but it doesn't imply that you can't go beyond the lines. 

5. Use a colorless blender

Basically, to blend, use a colorless blender, which is a pencil without the color. When using a colored pencil, you will usually see the color of the paper underneath. You can intensify the color and get a clean look by using a colorless blender that will smooth everything out. When you are using the technique of making small circles to shade your picture, begin with the lighter areas and progress to the darker ones. A colorless blender can be used for a variety of purposes like pre-soaking paper, blending/fading colors, or for areas that are already colored but need highlights, and these pencils are clear and have an alcohol-based solvent. 

This enhances your artwork because they are great for correcting any coloring mistakes. You can use the colorless blender after you apply the color or before. 

6. The stained glass look

If you want to get that stained glass look, trace the outer lines with a thick line and then fill in with a lighter colored pencil.  This will become one of your favorite techniques because it's fun. You can select any colors you choose. Try using other colors than you normally use and have fun. If you want to be creative, try coloring your picture with the look of stained glass. 

After you have finished coloring your artwork and you want to give it a stained glass look, scrape a piece of fabric with baby oil on it or use a paper towel. Make sure the cloth is wrapped around your finger and dip into the baby oil. By rubbing the oiled cloth onto your coloring page, your paper will have a translucent look, similar to stained glass but be sure to use the oil sparingly. 

Not only is adult coloring very beneficial for your health, but by implementing some very easy techniques, you can enhance the standard of your coloring. Therefore, adult coloring is one of the most popular activities. We gave you some easy techniques that will enhance the quality of your coloring in this article. First, we concentrated on the techniques of shading and then the use of watercolor pencils. 

The next thing we discussed was how to get creative and use other supplies. Following that, we went over how to add texture and finished up with how to blend with a colorless blender. You will be able to raise the level of your coloring now that you have become familiar with these basic techniques. 