For many years, adult coloring books have been a popular item among kids and adults. It is enjoyable for adults to apply their creativity to the images and select colors that bring those images to life. Users, young or adult, get excited about using different art supplies such as crayons, colored pencils, or markers. If you have thoughts that are intrusive and happen over and over again, try coloring because it helps to relax you and draw your mind's focus away from those thoughts. For the hobbyists, coloring has benefits that are close to those who practice meditation. We will look into five adult coloring books in this article. The first thing we will explore is the anatomy coloring books as well as animal coloring books. 

The next thing we'll discuss is the "Secret Garden" which is a botanical coloring book. Then we will talk about swirls and finish off with imaginative themes. As soon as you're done reading this article, you'll have more chance of enjoying the benefits that these great adult coloring books offer. 

1. Secret Garden by Johanna Basford

Secret Garden is one of the earliest adult coloring books to become part of the trend. The intricate botanical designs of Basford's adult coloring book delivers delightful hours of coloring. It has been printed on a stock paper that's a lot thicker, so it can be used with watercolor, ink, marker, or the conventional colored pencils. It also includes blank sections to provide the artist space to add their details. The author has also released other equally impressive coloring books like Enchanted Forest and Lost Ocean. Coloring is not only for kids to enjoy and to keep them busy. 

Yet, it is often regarded as an activity for children only. But the truth is, adult coloring pages and books are hugely therapeutic and promote mindfulness, quietness, and wellness and provide similar effects that meditation has on the brain. 

2. The Anatomy Coloring Book by Wynn Kapit

Coloring books on human anatomy is another example of the first adult coloring books that have remained popular on the shelves today. This particular coloring book is fun and highly educational as it gives the artist knowledge about the major systems in the human body, such as the names of all the bones in the skeletal system. Hence, these books may also catch the interest of teens and older children. Did you know that coloring engages your creativity, logic, and fine motor skills? 

It can significantly help you hold small items, and so on. It also teaches your brain to pay close attention. Moreover, coloring also enhances your vision. In short, coloring can offer you plenty of benefits. 

Adult Coloring Book: Stress Relieving Animal Designs by Dan Morris

Dan Morris' Stress Relieving Animal Designs coloring book features various animal designs that artists can enjoy ranging from beginner to expert level. Some of the adorable characters included are butterflies, cats, elephants, and charming dolphins. Additionally, the designs are printed on a clean background, which means that artists can add their details to the featured animal. Plus, the paper used on this coloring book is thick enough that gel pens can be conveniently used. What makes these adult coloring books different from the typical coloring book for children are the elaborate designs and a wider range of themes to choose from. 

Adult coloring book themes range from animals, nature, and mandalas to modern cityscapes, human anatomy, fantasy, and even printed expletives. Authors and publishers of adult coloring books have asserted ever since that the act of coloring can encourage mindfulness and reduce anxiety and stress, among many other benefits. 

Coloring Book for Adults: Amazing Swirls by Happy Coloring, Elena Bogdanovych

This book contains swirly designs in various difficulty levels. The designs aren't too complicated though; even beginners could enjoy them. This volume features animal designs, but most are floral. Only one side of the pages are printed, so bleed-through isn't something to worry about. There is more to coloring than just relaxing and reducing your stress levels. 

This simple activity also stimulates your logic and boosts your creativity. Coloring utilizes both sides of the brain's cerebral cortex. This part of the brain promotes vision, fine motor skills, and coordination. 

5. Creative Haven Owls Coloring Book by Marjorie Sarnat

This coloring book contains owl designs and other fun-to-color patterns. This imaginative book features owls and intricate background designs, which will surely delight artists. You can choose from different themes: totem poles, kites, royalty, and peace. This Creative Haven series from Dover Publications includes various topics and themes. The pages are perforated for easy removal, and only one side is printed, so you need not worry about bleed-throughs. Adults are usually stuck in a similar routine: get up, wake the kids, cook breakfast, prepare kids' lunch boxes, take the kids to school, drive to work, cook dinner, tuck the kids in bed. 

If you wish to escape from this daily routine, then coloring pages is a creative way for you to unwind after a busy day. Coloring helps reduce the thoughts of a restless mind. Adult coloring can help you rediscover your true self. 

The advantages of coloring are much like those of meditation for devoted hobbyists. Coloring relieves stress and clears your thoughts so you focus on just being in the moment. These past years, adult coloring books have surged in popularity. Adults take delight in bringing a design to life with beautiful colors. This article has shared with you five must-try adult coloring books. First, adult coloring books that feature anatomy and animal designs were discussed. 

You also learned about the botanical-themed coloring book Secret Garden. Lastly, you took a look at coloring books with swirl designs and less-realistic themes. You can finally enjoy the many benefits of these adult coloring books now that you've read through this article. 