Over 25% of our entire body mass is comprised of just a single protein, collagen. Since tendons, ligaments, muscles, bones and skin are all primarily made from collagen, it is therefore the most widely used protein in the human body. True to the origin of its Greek name, ’Kolla’, meaning ‘glue’, it provides the scaffolding for harder structures like bones and teeth, and for cartilage, viscera, and organs.

The Greek name "Kolla," in essence refers to glue and it contributes to the framework for stronger formations like the cartilage, viscera, organs, bones and teeth. Tissues remain full and solid because collagen retains moisture. 

The role it plays is to safeguard the epidermis against harm from UV radiation. Collagen production and quality decline as you age, and because of this, your skin becomes dry and wrinkled, your bones and joints become weaker, and wounds heal slower. 

1. Eat More collagen-boosting Nutrients

It's crucial that you consume collagen as well as eat a healthy diet that includes all the nutrients your body needs to produce it. Collagen co-factors are vitamin A as well as C. So to construct collagen, your body needs them. Green leafy vegetables like chard, kale, broccoli and bell peppers are where you can get vitamin A and C. Organ meats like chicken or beef liver, organic meat, free-range egg yolks, tahini, 
wild-caught fish, seeds and nuts have both vitamins. Consume these foods in adequate amounts to meet your daily vitamin C and A needs. 

When you take your vitamin A and C supplements, it is simple to just add a collagen supplement with it. Extra vitamin C is often included in the formulas of many collagen supplements. Antioxidant-rich fruits like lingonberry, camu camu, and amla berry are full of vitamin C. You can get them in either liquid or powder form (Garden of Life mykind Orange Tangerine Amla Vitamin C or Paradise Herbs & Essentials Camu Camu). 

2. Try A Keto-Friendly Collagen Powder

A simple, easy way to boost the collagen in your keto diet is including collagen protein supplement. This will not throw your macros out of balance. Go for products that contain a good balance of healthy fat and collagen. An example of a great keto-friendly product contains MCTs from coconut oil combined with grass-fed beef collagen. 

When making a cup of coffee, keto smoothies, or even fat bomb recipes is always a good time to try adding the collagen powder. Keto pancakes are always good too. 

3. Avoid Collagen-Depleting Habits

You can boost the benefits of collagen by getting rid of your unhealthy lifestyle. "Collagen slayers" are what these are occasionally called. It is proven that collagen synthesis in the body is reduced by many things, including smoking, excess sun exposure, over-exercising, a sedentary lifestyle, chronic stress and poor sleep. Anything that negatively affects your wellness can reduce collagen synthesis. 

Consuming high-glycemic foods can also breakdown collagen. However, sugar is already restricted when you are on a keto diet. 

4. Incorporate More Bone Broth

The majority of people don't consume collagen on a regular basis as it is ample in our bones and the tissues that are connected. An excellent way to increase your collagen is by drinking bone broth. Those tissues are full of collagen and that is where bone broth is made from. The most practical avenue of increasing your collagen level is to simply to drink bone broth on a daily basis. 

Bone broth protein powder is an excellent and convenient alternative to sipping the liquid broth. Powdered bone broth, basically liquid broth dehydrated into powder, contains multiple types of collagen plus around 12 to 20 grams of protein per serving. Nut milk with bone broth protein powder makes a great afternoon snack. 

The very unique amino acid profile that collagen has is beneficial to the suppression of hunger. A supplement of collagen taken prior to eating will boost your sense of being full and will  probably lower your degree of hunger. Taking collagen during a meal is helpful in preventing you from ingesting calories.  Hunger is suppressed and you have a greater feeling of fullness from using collagen. 

Because feeling fuller and more satisfied leads to weight loss, many studies focusing on protein intake have been performed. Collagen's unique peptide structure has been proven to be more effective in controlling appetite compared to other types of protein. 