We love the ketogenic diet because it allows us to focus on life instead of stressing about our health and body image. Big mistakes are so easy for any first time keto user when they start. Mistakes are made by practically each person. Keto mistakes can drag you down mentally, even when they are very small in comparison to the outside world. As you see the fantastic results others are getting from keto, you expect those same results just right away when you get started. But first, you need to realize what the basics of keto are, as well as how it functions within your own body. 

You will make fewer mistakes if you take the time first to understand the basics. Or, you may choose to just jump in first, letting experience itself teach you the lessons you need. During the introduction of a keto lifestyle, both first timers as well as old hands commonly make these 10 keto mistakes. 

1. Not Enough Fats

Consuming enough fats, when starting keto is by far the most difficult change for most people. To eat that much fat every day, most likely, is entirely new for you. Finding the fatty foods that you need may not be an easy task. You must consume fat to lose fat while on keto. 

Reaching the daily fat macros is included in this. Another massive mistake that people make is not planning out their meals, it is extremely important to meal plan. 

2. Not Meal Planning

Among those new to keto, this is the most common mistake. You end up failing to meet your daily macros when you do not plan your meals. Unfortunately, when you are hungry it is easy to slip up and eat something that will knock you out of ketosis, this happens to many people. You will not only save money when you meal plan, but you will also avoid frustration and headaches. 

You will know everything that you are ingesting on any day, just by planning your meals. This makes it simple for you to see, and understand,  what corrections your diet needs. 

3. Looking For A Quick Fix

This is truly a ketogenic change in your lifestyle, not merely just another type of diet. This is not about returning to your old habits as soon as you drop a few pounds by using keto for a bit. That would just send you back to start all over again. You will want to stick with keto for the rest of your life, the health benefits are worth your time investment. 

Simply remove sugars from your diet if you are only interested in just a quick solution. That will allow for a quick drop in weight, without tracking, planning and the other things needed for a successful keto diet, in the majority of people. 

4. Too Much Protein

We are told all our lives that protein is good. When you do not overindulge, this is true. When your body is using fat as the primary source of fuel, you only need enough protein to maintain your muscle mass on a ketogenic diet. The tiny amount of protein needed for this would most likely shock you. 

You can be knocked out of ketosis, because your body converts the extra protein you eat into glucose, raising your blood sugar levels. As most food items have at least a small amount of protein in them, finding your protein macros is pretty simple. 

5. The Wrong Fats

Fats are not all alike. You must verify that you are consuming the correct fats, since ketosis is built around fats.  But, which are wrong? Fats that are processed. Seed oils and vegetables are the fats that you need to keep away from. You will have more health issues with these oils that have been processed. 

When a spike occurs in you LDL cholesterol levels, risk of cancer increased, risk of heart disease increased, these are just some of the health issues possible. You should never have any difficulty in obtaining your daily fat macros with all the choices available. 

6. Comparing Yourself To Others

Not everyone sees results at the same rate when starting their keto process, each person is different. Each person's body reacts differently from another's. While the general outcomes are the same for everyone, each person achieves those outcomes at their own pace. An obvious benefit of the ketogenic diet is losing weight. 

While another person may lose 10 pounds in as little as seven days, your results will be different. Each person has their own variables that determine the rate of their results. All you need to do, simply, is to concentrate on your success. Everything else will sort itself out. 

7. Obsessing Over the Scale

To say, "I lost four pounds, during my first week on keto". Many people will often see wonderful results similar to this when they are transitioning to keto. Unfortunately, many people tend to believe that all results should be this wonderful when seeing stories with this fantastic success. What seems to be the most visible change for nearly every person, is having their measurements change. 

You do not want to use weight loss as the only verification that you are successful while on keto. To see a validation that is just not visible from watching your scales, once a week you should take your measurements. 

8. Not Drinking Enough Water

Your body can not carry out its standard functions without water, this is quite simply just a fact. One thing that most people have difficulty adjusting to when transitioning to a keto lifestyle is to drink more water. Keeping a water bottle, of which you know the size, near at hand is extremely important. You can always add a touch of flavor, more than just lemon, to liven up your water. 

Typically, we use the Berry Blast Electrolytes flavor since you have to ensure you're replenishing your electrolytes when drinking all of this water. Just how much water do you need? From one half to a full ounce of water for every pound of body weight, that is the most common rule. 

9. Not Getting Enough Sleep

Sleep is just as important as water. Your body can not function properly when you are not getting enough sleep. Before you can begin the next day, your body must have time to reset. When you need a fast source of energy, drooping from lost sleep, it is all too easy to go overboard with sugary donuts. 

Try going to bed an hour earlier, this should help you get the proper rest that you need. 

10. Going About It By Yourself

It is difficult enough to alter your lifestyle. To not have a support system while making this life altering change is nearly impossible. You must have the support of your family when you make the choice to try keto. You should let them know your reasons behind going keto in order to gain their support, if they choose to keto with you, while not a must, that is even better. When you go out with family members and friends, the absolute last thing that should happen to you is eating something that is going to be a detriment to your path. 

Do not bail out. There is an extremely large keto family out there to contact. There are tons of support groups to be found with a simple online search. 

You can easily overcome each of these mistakes. Don't think that you have failed if you realize that you have done some of these. So, you fell off the horse, just remember to get back up and try again, you keep going, that is what is important. Gaining the healthy body you want is possible by using the keto lifestyle. 

You will realize that other people are dealing with the same things that you are. You will also achieve the same results that they are gaining. 