Pre-schoolers and toddlers who are read to daily have a larger vocabulary compared to those who are not read to according to studies. Reading with your child offers many benefits and advantages. Reading will help a child understand how to read and write and enhance their vocabulary and when you read aloud to a child you assist them in learning topics from everyday life and about the world. 

Read on to learn why it's important to read with your children. 

1. Reading Develops Language Skills

Though you talk to your children every day, the vocabulary you use with them is often repetitive and limited. Reading books assures your child's exposure to vocabulary on diverse topics. This exposes them to vocabulary that may not be included in their everyday lives. They are better off when they know more words. 

Reading is a simple way to improve language skills and develop fluency, especially for a child who speaks more than one language. Reading is important in honing these skills. 

2. Encourages A Thirst For Knowledge

Reading to your child encourages them to ask questions about the details of the book you read to them. This allows you an opportunity for a learning experience to talk about what is going on around them. Their interest in different languages and cultures is also cultivated. It brings joy to see your child enjoying the process of learning. Your children will start to ask questions on the topics you are reading about when you read to them. 

To read about various topics, you should provide a wide range of books. Allow your child to learn about new things by letting them read about different reading materials covering various topics that may pique their interest. 

3. Teaches Children About Different Topics

Don't belittle the significance of reading various books to children. Exposing your child to books with diverse topics or even in different languages for bilingual kids, helps them absorb more information. Select a variety of books to read. Different objects, places, or animals are topics that include informative books. 

Look for books that teach children about essential life skills such as diversity, sharing, and kindness. A wonderful gift is giving one of the amazing personalized books. 

4. Develops A Child's Imagination

Nurturing your child's imagination is one of the benefits of making reading with them a habit. We imagine the actions of the characters when we interact with a book. We tend to view the setting as a reality. One of the beautiful things to see is how excited your child's eyes are when they know or guess what's going to happen when you flip the next page. 

You should encourage them to guess what would happen next, or tell the story themselves. It will stimulate and nurture your child's imagination and will encourage them to think outside the box. 

5. Books Are A Form Of Entertainment

It is difficult not to be all caught up in the technology hype around us these days. Children love having access to all apps, smartphones, video games, and TV. Your child can find just as much entertainment when reading a good book. Help lessen the negative impact of too much screen time by reading compelling books with your child or just letting your child flip through pages. 

One of the crucial benefits of reading with babies or toddlers is they will instead choose reading a book than any other activity for pleasure to relieve their boredom. Encouraging your kids to make reading a habit at a very young age will tend to choose reading books rather than other activities when they're bored. 

6. Creates A Bond

Nothing beats spending your time cuddling up to your child while reading a book or a bedtime story. Reading, talking, and spending time together helps strengthen the bond between parents and children. Even if parents have a hectic schedule, it is still possible for them to relax and de-stress by spending some time reading with their kids. You create a healthy relationship bond with your child when you spend time with them. 

One of the best ways to spend quality, one-on-one time with your child is through reading together during the day or bedtime. Talking about a book together with your child is an excellent opportunity to discover each other's thoughts, feelings, likes, and dislikes, and spending time with them shows them how valuable they are to you. This way can help develop their self-esteem and self-worth. 

7. Develops Empathy

When a child develops empathic feelings, you can also see another reason why reading is essential. It is possible when a child has the ability to place themself in the story. They feel what the characters they identify are feeling. It happens as children learn to relate to and understand emotions. As empathy takes a long time to develop in children fully, they begin to understand the feelings of others at around the age of six or seven years old. 

A way for children to learn about feelings is by reading stories. Discussing how and why the characters in a story might be feeling, helps your child learn how to empathize. 

8. Sets Them Up For Success

Your children will gain more knowledge about life in general if you read to them more often. Based on several studies, babies and toddlers have a headstart for school and later on when you read to them. By reading to your child, you help them learn the skills they need in starting to read by themselves. Reading words on a page from left to right and turning pages are essential pre-reading skills that children must learn even before they start school. 

Children will perform well in language as well as their other subjects if they enjoy reading. 

9. Promotes Brain Health

Stimulate your child's brain and help them boost their early reading skills by reading to them as often as you can. When young children are exposed to reading from an early age at home certain areas of the brain are influenced, according to research on the importance of reading. Your child's language development significantly depends on these areas. When children are read to at an early age, critical areas of the brain needed for language development are affected, according to research. 

Being read to at an early age helps children learn how to speak, read, and communicate. Children will excel in language, literacy, as well as all other subjects if they enjoy reading. 

10. Enhances Concentration

Reading with your child is crucial at this stage, even though it feels entirely frustrating reading to a toddler who continually wants to throw things around, swap books, and turn pages. Your child will learn to stay still and focus on the book for an extended period if you read to them often. Start with short reading sessions with your child to help them enjoy the process more and to keep them interested in reading as well. 

They will enjoy talking to you about the pictures and listening to the voices you make. Doing so will help your child focus, which will eventually be beneficial when school starts. 

Parents should keep in mind that reading aloud to their children helps develop their early literacy and communication skills. You open your child's mind up to a larger and exciting world when you expose your child to wonderful new experiences. Your child will learn to love books as well as build their imagination. To encourage your child's desire and love for reading, they need to perceive it as enjoyable, engaging, positive, and fun. 

Do not discourage your child from reading by making them feel that your only intention is only to make them learn. Keep in mind that learning the art of listening is a process. You should progress slowly, then when your child is ready, change the subject matter to ignite the next round of curiosity about the world they see around them to expand their level of interest to want more. 