Think about being a hero with super abilities to make time stop when something is in a state of perfection. It's awesome, don't you agree? You can achieve that superpower by canning veggies. Preserving your veggies when they are at their best, allows you to set it aside for a day when the weather is not so good. Although there are people that use a pressure canner, you should hide behind your fridge if any of your appliances have the word "pressure" in it. 

The approved technique is a boiling water bath. You'll have delicious food in your jars even though the technique can be dangerous, messy, and takes a lot of time. 

1. Safety first

We need to discuss safety before we proceed. You can have a reminder of a short-lived blunder for a life-time by having a bad-looking and painful scald burn. So, canning alone is the first rule of preserving your veggies safely. When it comes to canning your veggies, it's not good to do it with kids around, but cooking with kids is good. 

Get dibs on the kitchen, put your pets outside, and your rosy-cheeked kids to bed. Oversized pots of veggies and boiling water don't go together with pets and kids because they are swift on their feet and unpredictable. 

2. Gather Your Supplies

These are the supplies you need. Glass canning jars with rings and lids, wire canning rack, ladle, slotted spoon, jar lifting tongs, and an 18-21 quart pot with lid because a large bowl for pasta will not be big enough. You're not required to have a canning funnel, but it's helpful. 

Gather lots of towels for clean-up, syrup, pot holders, ripe fruits, and veggies; now don't make a face, but you're going to need a couple of hours that won't be interrupted. 

3. Do Prep Work

Boiling the rings and lids for five minutes and the jars for ten minutes sterilizes them. Let it cool by putting on a drying rack. The liquid that goes in with veggies is syrup, so you need to prepare both the vegetables and the syrup. There are endless options to can, but dilly beans and tomatoes are common. 

The vegetables that have skin like tomatoes need to have blemishes removed, peel, cut into small pieces, and boiled. The type of veggie you're preserving depends on how long you boil it. Now, be sure to fill your pot 2/3 full of water and turn on the heat. 

4. Can Your Food

Take the sterilized glass jars and place the veggies in and then fill it up with the syrup. At the top of the jar leave one half to one inch of space. You can use a ladle and wipe away any drips with a sponge that is wet, however, a lot of people fill the jars nicely with a funnel. Put the flat lids on top of the jars and then add the rings. 

It's not necessary to tighten the ring like a superhero when a firm twist will do. Put your filled jars on the wire rack and carefully lower it into the pot of boiling water. You will need to boil for 20-30 minutes which is what the majority of veggies require. While the jars are cooking, stay in the kitchen and pay attention to the boiling water even though it may be boring do it for the sake of safety. 

5. Wrap It Up

After cooking for the right amount of time, gently remove the jars with the tongs and put on the rack to cool or on a towel. Once the jars have thoroughly cooled you can touch them. Unscrew the ring of the cooled jars as this will avoid rust by allowing any remaining water to escape and then tighten the rings again.  Don't take the flat lid off. 

On the flat lid, tap the middle of it. It is not sealed properly if you hear a "pop." If this happens, you can still use it but you will need to refrigerate it immediately. To make sure you have a seal that is safe you'll have to reboil the jar. Keep your jars of deliciousness isolated from drafts, direct heat, and sunlight. Canned vegetables are usually good for 12 months. Toss it out, when in doubt. 

One of the beautiful delights in gardening at home is canning the food you've grown. Once you have the supplies you need, it's somewhat relaxed, and beginners can follow the seven canning suggestions to get started. Now, to begin with, there are benefits you should think about. It lessens food waste, is eco-friendly, and cost-effective, too. There is no bisphenol or preservatives when you are canning. 

In addition to being fresher than foods that are canned commercially, the foods that you canned yourself taste better. It's simpler than you may assume and fun, too. It really is! Beginners can get prepared to start preserving foods that are their favorites by reading the following tips for canning. 