The milestones to mark the emotional and social development for the early childhood years are not as prominent as the milestones used to mark their physical growth. The emotional and social development shapes a very prominent role in each child's life. These two serve as the groundwork of a child's life as they grow up. These fundamentals will enable your child to build a positive interaction with their peers by understanding and respecting others' feelings and ideas and the capability to handle their own emotions. 

These factors will dictate your child's performance in school and their life beyond. There are various stages of your kid's social and emotional development, and you will learn about it here. Your kid needs to develop their emotional and social skills. 

1. Definition Of Emotional Development

The process of emotional learning begins at birth and continues as they grow. An infant depends on their parents or babysitters to recognize their cues because they can only communicate what they are feeling non-verbally. The ability to control their emotions is reflected in their expressions. The cultural and social influences of their environment and family are closely associated with emotional expression. 

The relationship between the caregiver and the child enables them to convey in culturally and socially acceptable ways, both negative and positive emotions. A child can endure great suffering in their life when they lack proper emotional development. 

2. Social Development Is Important

Social development helps build proper behavior in your child when they grow up. It provides them a good grasp of the kind of life they're living in and aids them in being in control during their transition to adulthood. It helps a child to shape their future through their emotional and social development. While their emotions are in control, they can make decisions regarding their ambitions. A child has the ability of following instructions given by teachers or parents as well as playing and cooperating with peers when they develop social skills. 

As a result, it helps them go through a good transition while being involved in different activities. Emotional readiness will pave the way for your child to learn how to take charge of their emotions. 

3. From Birth To Six Months

Did you know that babies actively start to learn many things just a few days from birth? They will learn about themselves, and the people in their environment. At this stage, your baby should be able to suck their little fingers or focus their gaze on their hands. They will try to see the part of their body you touched and start to understand that they love to be soothed and comforted by adults. Your baby's social interaction is a crucial aspect to look into during this time. 

At three to six months of age, your baby starts to respond whenever you call their name. Growing babies love to play peek-a-boo with you and easily laugh or smile every time you make silly noises. 

4. From Six Months To A Year

Babies will show a liking to members of their family at this stage of their emotional development. Your young child will begin conveying different emotions, such as happiness, sadness, fear, and anger. They can identify who their family members are from strangers. When their toys are taken from them they will start to express frustration. Anywhere from nine months to one year old, your baby starts to become responsible and sociable. 

During this stage, the ability to learn how to self-regulate is critical. Your little one would be able to mimic simple actions and hold their cup when drinking. 

5. From One Year To Four Years

Exploring the world around them for hours is how many children will spend a large portion of their time. They attentively watch people move around them and feeling more aware of themself. The toddler stage begins at two years of age. They will gain confidence and learn creativity. They will also experience frequent mood swings. Once they turn three years of age, they will start to become more independent. 

The ability to share their toys with friends and siblings starts. Your child will start following instructions too. Set up games and invite their friends to join in. 

6. From Four Years to Six Years

A youngster starts to be aware of their individuality by the time they are four. They start to develop their ability to think logically and develop their motor skills. Your 4-year old child can now identify good behavior from bad behavior. They will start comparing themselves with their peers. A 6-year-old child will try to understand the feelings of others. 

And, they will begin to be more competitive with others. They will learn to follow instructions correctly. Creative things like drawing will begin to catch their interest. 

7. From Seven Years To Twelve Years

The age they start to school. Your child will encounter many emotional outbursts but will be able to fit together with their classmates at this stage. They begin to have a desire to learn key subjects like social studies and math. The majority of children at this age have developed a self-disciplined technique in learning. 

Your child may begin to take more initiative in doing some tasks or activities. They will feel pride with these new responsibilities. 

8. From Twelve Years To Twenty Years

A psychological crisis is something kids experience at this stage. The teenage years are where your child must face all confusion surrounding the issues of the opposite gender as well as own. As they begin to understand themselves, they will start to answer questions satisfactorily. When your teen comes face to face with an issue during this stage, a rebellious nature can surface. 

They will feel lots of uncertainties regarding themself. Usually, teens will prefer to be alone and become conscious of their appearance. 

9. Factors That Influence 

Every child develops in their complex and unique manner. There are some similarities between the emotional development of children and their parents. These factors tend to be hereditary. As children grow their mental capacity, they are also attaining emotional maturity at the same time. A child's capacity to handle their emotions will depend mainly on their level of maturity. Children with stable overall health can handle their emotions better while those who are weak, have unstable emotions, are excitable, and irritable. 

An intelligent child also tends to be emotionally stable. Children also reflect their parents when they use a balanced manner to express emotions and stability in their behavior. On the other hand, if parents show violence, their children will also embrace the same. 

10. How To Enhance Social And Emotional Skills

From birth, all babies begin to form relationships with those surrounding them. Acceptable behavior or the controlling of one's emotions is a process of development that may take some time to acquire. This process of emotional and social development in kids is usually ongoing until their adolescence. Parents need to create opportunities to enable their children to play and engage with other kids and help them develop their emotional and social skills. 

In this way, you can help your kid in expressing what they're feeling and also assist them in learning more about their capabilities. Offering limited options allow them to make some of their own decisions on everyday things like what to wear or want they want for dinner. 

At a baby's birth, they will begin to form relationships with the people they are around. It might take several years for their process of development to take place, like how to behave appropriately or control their emotions. Even into their late teen years, children are still developing their emotional and social processes. From birth, responsible parents need to be aware of which emotional and social skills their kids are missing, so as they grow, they can help them. 

Parents must understand that each child is unique in their ways, so there is no exact age or time when their child may or may not exhibit the signs mentioned above. One crucial thing you must always remember is to let your kids know that you love them more than anything. 