While you can easily determine a child's milestones with a few physical signs, their early development years can also be established through social and emotional growth. The emotional and social development play a significant part in every child's life and is critical. It is the primary building block of their life as they grow older. These fundamentals will enable your child to build a positive interaction with their peers by understanding and respecting others' feelings and ideas and the capability to handle their own emotions. 

How your child performs in school and the future will be determined by all these things. Hence, discussed here are the different developmental phases of your child's emotional and social characteristics that you should learn. Your kid needs to develop their emotional and social skills. 

1. Definition Of Emotional Development

The process of emotional learning begins at birth and continues as they grow. An infant depends on their parents or babysitters to recognize their cues because they can only communicate what they are feeling non-verbally. The ability to control their emotions is reflected in their expressions. Cultural and social influences in a child's family and environment are closely linked to their emotional expression. 

In a culturally and socially acceptable environment of the relationship with a caretaker, a child learns how to express both positive and negative emotions. There is a high possibility for a child to suffer considerably later in life if they are unable to go through proper emotional development. 

2. Social Development Is Important

Social development helps build proper behavior in your child when they grow up. It provides them a good grasp of the kind of life they're living in and aids them in being in control during their transition to adulthood. Thus, emotional and social development helps mold a child's future. While their emotions are in control, they can make decisions regarding their ambitions. Having their social skills developed allows children to listen attentively to instructions given by their parents and teachers, as well as work together and play with their peers. 

As a result, it helps them go through a good transition while being involved in different activities. Emotional readiness will pave the way for your child to learn how to take charge of their emotions. 

3. From Birth To Six Months

From birth, babies begin to learn many things actively. They will learn about themselves, and the people in their environment. During this time, your baby should be able to suck their fingers and look at their hands. They learn that they enjoy being soothed, need to be comforted by adults, and will attempt to look when you touch any part of their body. Your baby's social interaction is a crucial aspect to look into during this time. 

A baby will begin responding to their name between three and six months of age. Growing babies love to play peek-a-boo with you and easily laugh or smile every time you make silly noises. 

4. From Six Months To A Year

During this period of emotional development, babies will start to show affection to the members of the family. Your baby should start demonstrating various feelings, like being afraid, happy, fearful, sad, or angry. They are able to differentiate between strangers and family members. When their toys are taken from them they will start to express frustration. Anywhere from nine months to one year old, your baby starts to become responsible and sociable. 

Learning self-control is valuable at this point. Your little one would be able to mimic simple actions and hold their cup when drinking. 

5. From One Year To Four Years

Exploring the world around them for hours is how many children will spend a large portion of their time. Gaining a sense of self-awareness while watching people around them. The toddler stage begins at two years of age. Their confidence will be increased, and they will start to become creative. They will also experience frequent mood swings. Being extremely independent happens around the age of three. 

The ability to share their toys with friends and siblings starts. They will start to obey directions. They will also invite their friends to play the new games they created. 

6. From Four Years to Six Years

At four years old, your child starts to become aware of their individuality. The development of reasoning and motor skills begins. Being able to tell the difference between good and bad behavior is something a four-year-old can do. They are comparing themselves with others. Trying to understand someone else's feelings is something your child can do at 6 years old. 

And, they will begin to be more competitive with others. Following instructions correctly is something they should be able to do. Creative things like drawing will begin to catch their interest. 

7. From Seven Years To Twelve Years

Your child's school-age starts at seven years old. At this point, your child will be able to mingle well with peers but will have frequent emotional outbursts. An interest in learning major subjects, such as social studies and math, will also catch their attention. At this age, most youngsters have an approach to learning that includes self-discipline. 

Allow your child to start to be proactive in choosing some activities to do on their own. They begin to feel pride in their new responsibilities. 

8. From Twelve Years To Twenty Years

This is the most critical of psychological stages. Your children would have to deal with problems related to the teenage stage and confusion about their gender and the opposite gender. They will understand more about themselves if they learn how to respond to your questions acceptably. During this phase, your teen's rebellious nature emerges each time they come face to face with an issue. 

Many self-doubts about themselves can arise. Usually, teens will prefer to be alone and become conscious of their appearance. 

9. Factors That Influence 

Every child develops in their complex and unique manner. There are a few similarities established between the emotional development of a child and their parents. These factors are congenital. During your child's emotional development, they also mature mentally. Their level of maturity dictates the child's emotions. Children with stable overall health can handle their emotions better while those who are weak, have unstable emotions, are excitable, and irritable. 

An intelligent child also tends to be emotionally stable. Children also reflect their parents when they use a balanced manner to express emotions and stability in their behavior. If parents are violent, the kids will behave the same. 

10. How To Enhance Social And Emotional Skills

Your child will tend to establish relationships with family members around them at birth. Acceptable behavior or the controlling of one's emotions is a process of development that may take some time to acquire. This process of emotional and social development in kids is usually ongoing until their adolescence. Your kids need to play with others, so you need to make that happen so that they can develop emotional and social skills. 

It allows them to express their feelings and learn about their capabilities. Offering particular privileges is one way to teach your child how to make their own decisions in their everyday needs, such as what color they want to wear or what they like for dinner. 

Starting from the time of their birth, babies tend to establish relationships with their family members around them. However, the process of developing their proper behavior and control of their emotions might go on for a few years. Moreover, a child's emotional and social development may continue until the late years of their teenage life. As your child grows from birth, a responsible parent will help them to learn the social and emotional skills that they are missing. 

Because every child develops at their own pace, they can pass through the stages at a different age. Nevertheless, it's important to remember that it is essential to show your child you love them. 