Has it ever occurred to you that even with the recent economic slump and recession, our country seems to continue consuming a lot? Thousands of wood and mounds of paper wastes are burned each day. The beauty of the countryside scenery is currently being littered with countless tin and metal wastes that are more than enough to encircle the Earth. You can take pride in cutting down the national vice of waste and saving money that you are not able to spare when you can use something that would normally just be thrown away. 

Whether to make life easier or craft a useful object, you can use the everyday items listed below that would normally be tossed away. 

1. Bags 

Paper sacks can be useful in other ways, aside from their general use. Use it as a trash can by hanging it from the back of your seat in the car. This should remove the temptation for your children to just toss their trash on the floor. If someone is sick at home with a cold or the likes, you can secure a bag on one side of the bed to have a used cleansing tissue bin handy and avoid scattering the germs. 

To easily and quickly empty the cloth bag on your vacuum cleaner, shake it out over a larger bag. To keep the dust out when you are rolling up a rug, cover it with paper, then add heavy paper bags over the ends. 

2. Bottle Cap

When you have a dent, patch it with a bottle cap. Does your wooden table have a dent in it? Place a wet cloth over the dented spot. Then, place the metal bottle cap at the table over the dent with the scalloped edge facing upward, not downward. Use a hot iron's tip to press the center of the cap lightly. Repair your plunger, "aka plumber's helper," by using a bottle cap. 

You can nail a metal bottle cap to the handle end of your plunger, then force it into the rubber plunger if the rubber plunger keeps falling off of your plumber's helper. 

3. Coat Hangers

Coat hangers have so many uses that people are inclined to write about them. We don't recommend using wire hangers to make trellises and fences because they get rusted easily. But they're flexible enough to be converted into trouser hangers by just tweaking the ends together and running a belt strap through each side end, pinching on both ends and bending the top wire upward can serve as skirt hangers with the help of some safety pins. Nothing beats a straightened coat hanger to clean and remove something wedged inside your vacuum-cleaner tube when you have no available stiff wire to use. 

And with just a little tweak, you can create a hanging rack for drying your socks, stockings, and other tiny pieces of laundry using a discarded cake rack or a refrigerator shelf rack strapped to a coat hanger at each end. Keep your hangers handy in an apartment with limited space; you can place them in the closet or on the shower rod in the bathroom. 

4. Fruit Crates

If you're a carpenter or a DIY-er, fruit crates are the best for creating various wooden projects. There are plenty of other ways to use them if you're not handy. Make shelved cabinets for storing canned food items, cleaning materials under the sink, or a temporary corner emergency cabinet by using upended sectioned fruit crates. You can fasten a small curtain rod with a cup hook or small nail across the front to hang a drawstring curtain over the front to hide the contents from view. 

You can turn your fruit crate with shelves into an eye-catching piece of furniture like a bookshelf; stain it with varnish, then cover it with different paper mementos that you have collected from your life, and then protect it with a coat of shellac. 

5. Milk Cartons 

Like coat hangers, empty milk cartons can be turned into many other things. For a short time, some foods can be kept in one that has been thoroughly washed out in the freezer. To save yourself from constantly washing and deodorizing regular containers for odoriferous foods like fish, you can use milk boxes, cut in lengthwise, to store these food items instead. They make wonderful seed flats when you cut them lengthwise. 

When your young plants are ready to be transplanted into the garden; it is simple to move them. You can place the plant down into the soil with the sides of the carton still intact, just cut off the bottom of the carton first. Sow your seeds thinly for this method. Also, you can make excellent plant collars for your tomato plants by cutting milk cartons crosswise; this is best in keeping cutworms away. 

6. Newspaper 

A wonderful aid to clean with is the newspaper. When you have nothing else around you can do many things with newspapers; clean your windows, polish with dry newspaper, and swab with wet ones. When brushing your radiators clean, putting a damp newspaper under it will catch and hold down flying dust. If the bag from your vacuum cleaner will not fit into a large paper bag to empty it, shake it out over a damp newspaper. Save yourself from mopping up when defrosting by spreading some newspaper over the upper shelf of your refrigerator, below the defrosting tray, but remove it once done to avoid blocking the cold from your food. 

Newspapers can also serve as a protecting agent. During transportation, you can wrap wet newspaper around the roots of a plant to keep the air away or around the stems of a bouquet to keep them fresh. Avoid dampening yourself and your car by wrapping it up with a large plastic vegetable bag. Using 24 double pages inside a muslin cover makes an excellent substitute for a patient's or child's disposable bed pad rubber sheet. 

7. Rancid Grease 

Did you know that you can make a laundry soap out of accumulated drippings, grease, or a combination of both? To have 2 quarts of strained melted fat, collect 5 pounds of grease. Use a cheesecloth to strain the fat and measure it after doing so. Add a single 1-pound can of lye to a quart of water as the grease is cooling. Cautiously pour this into an earthenware container or stone jar, and stir it with only a wooden spoon or stick, do not use metal. Lye is a very strong alkali, use caution so that you do not splash it on anything, even yourself. 

In an earthenware or enamel container, slowly pour the completely dissolved lye mix over the cooled grease. Continuously stir the new mixture until everything is combined. Dissolve 2 tablespoons of borax in 1/2 cup of water, then add 1/2 cup of household ammonia into the lye-and-grease mixture. Then stir until it reaches the consistency of thin pudding or honey. Once done, pour the mixture into a clay or granite mold and let it solidify for a few hours. Before it becomes fully hardened, cut the square into individual cakes. Allow the cakes of soap to harden around 6 weeks in a dry place. The soap will continue to harden with age; the older the soap is, the longer it will last. 

8. Tea

Cold tea, specifically black tea, can soothe sunburn due to its tannic acid content. If you have tired eyes, it can also be a perfect soothing poultice. Just get some absorbent cotton and dip into the strong cold tea, then apply it on closed eyelids for not less than 15 minutes. As a substitution, use tea bags that have been lightly squeezed out. 

You can also fertilize house plants with tea leaves. Strong tea is also useful when starching dark-colored materials, and it will help prevent the white film from showing on the cloth once added into the starch solution. Using a tea-dipped cloth for wiping varnished furniture and surfaces is also recommended. 

9. Toothbrush

If you are looking for an excellent cleaner, then look no further than your old toothbrush! It can be used to clean lint from parts of the sewing machine or dust off the typewriter keys. You can scrub the raised pattern on your flatware clean using a soft toothbrush. To make your cut glass pieces sparkly shine, use an old toothbrush with suds and some ammonia. 

Use one when you have corners that are hard to reach when dusting. To clean those hard to reach crevices on the burners to your stove and the waffle iron. Removing mud from your shoes and boots is a simple chore when using this. 

10. Towels

Before washing fragile glassware, it is best to place an old towel in the bottom of your dishpan. Before you place the glasses on the drainboard, place another one there. For old towels that are just a little bit worn out at the edge, stitch it over or rebind it. You can cut up towels that have become worn in the center, then just hem or bind the good pieces for use as dishcloths, washcloths, or potholders. 

You can sew a shower mitt with a pocket for placing chips of soap. Make a new cover for your hot water bottle. 

The idea of reuse is as straightforward as it sounds. Find a way to make an item useful again rather than throwing it away. Regardless of being as large as a building or as small as a button anything can be reused. You will save money if you reuse, and also a great way to show compassion to Mother Earth. 

So, start thinking like your Granny the next time you need to have something fixed or need to buy some items. So, go take a visit to your local repair, rental, consignment, or vintage shop and get creative, be green, and be smart. 