Pre-schoolers and toddlers who are read to daily have a larger vocabulary compared to those who are not read to according to studies. Reading with your child offers many benefits and advantages. Reading aloud to children widens their vocabulary, helps them learn how to read and write, allows them to understand various topics about everyday life, and helps them learn about what's going on in the world. 

Listed below are just some of the many advantages and benefits that explain how important it is to read with your children. 

1. Reading Develops Language Skills

You may be speaking with your kids daily; however, it only involves limited and repetitive words. Reading books assures your child's exposure to vocabulary on diverse topics. It means they encounter words and phrases that they don't hear in their daily lives when reading a book. It would be better if your child has a wide vocabulary. 

Reading is a simple way to improve language skills and develop fluency, especially for a child who speaks more than one language. The importance of reading is highlighted just by these skills alone. 

2. Encourages A Thirst For Knowledge

Your children will start to ask questions about books and the information they contain when you read to them. This allows you an opportunity for a learning experience to talk about what is going on around them. They may even find other languages and cultures interesting. It is rewarding to watch a child enjoy learning. Reading to your child inspires them to ask questions about what's being read to them. 

Strive to expose your child to books and other reading materials with diverse topics. Allow your child to learn about new things by letting them read about different reading materials covering various topics that may pique their interest. 

3. Teaches Children About Different Topics

Don't belittle the significance of reading various books to children. Your child will have a wider variety of information available to learn when you offer them books in a wide range of topics, as well as different languages for bilingual children. Select a variety of books to read. Different objects, places, or animals are topics that include informative books. 

Look for books that teach children about essential life skills such as diversity, sharing, and kindness. A wonderful gift is giving one of the amazing personalized books. 

4. Develops A Child's Imagination

Watching a child's imagination grow is a wonderful benefit of reading with your child. We imagine the actions of the characters when we interact with a book. Kids will think of the book's setting as real. One of the most beautiful things to watch is the excitement in a child's eyes when they already have a hunch on what comes next in the story, or letting them guess what will happen. 

You should encourage them to guess what would happen next, or tell the story themselves. It will stimulate and nurture your child's imagination and will encourage them to think outside the box. 

5. Books Are A Form Of Entertainment

These days, it's so easy for your kids to get consumed with technology and gadgets. Children are drawn to smartphones, video games, television, and apps. Keep in mind that reading books that your child finds interesting can be just as fun. Selecting an exciting book to read with your child, or even allowing them to flip the pages alone, is a smarter option than all of the adverse effects of watching screens extendedly. 

One of the best benefits of how essential reading with babies and toddlers is, kids will choose to pick up a book and read for pleasure instead of any other activity. Instead of looking at the nearest screen to escape boredom, when we encourage our children to read as a habit, they will choose a book. 

6. Creates A Bond

Nothing beats spending your time cuddling up to your child while reading a book or a bedtime story. Parents can grow closer to their children when they read, talk, and spend time together. Merely relaxing with your child and reading is a beautiful way to enjoy spending time while you unwind for the day and just bond together, especially for busy working parents. You create a healthy relationship bond with your child when you spend time with them. 

One of the best ways to spend quality, one-on-one time with your child is through reading together during the day or bedtime. Talking about a book together with your child is an excellent opportunity to discover each other's thoughts, feelings, likes, and dislikes, and spending time with them shows them how valuable they are to you. Doing so also helps boost your child's self-confidence and self-worth. 

7. Develops Empathy

One of the importance of reading that your child will also learn is the value of empathy. Something like this happens when a child can place himself in the story. They can feel what the character is feeling after identifying. Your child starts to figure out how to relate to emotions. As empathy takes a long time to develop in children fully, they begin to understand the feelings of others at around the age of six or seven years old. 

A way for children to learn about feelings is by reading stories. Children will learn to gain the skill to empathize when you discuss how the characters of the story are feeling. 

8. Sets Them Up For Success

Your children will gain more knowledge about life in general if you read to them more often. Studies have shown that reading to your infants and toddlers prepare them for school and give them an advantage later on. Reading with your children prepares them with the needed skills when they begin to read on their own. Reading words on a page from left to right and turning pages are essential pre-reading skills that children must learn even before they start school. 

When a child enjoys reading, they do well in all of the different subjects, not just in language and literacy. 

9. Promotes Brain Health

Stimulate your child's brain and help them boost their early reading skills by reading to them as often as you can. Studies show that reading to infants and toddlers at home plays an essential role in boosting functions in specific areas of the brain. Your child's language development significantly depends on these areas. When children are read to at an early age, critical areas of the brain needed for language development are affected, according to research. 

Their exposure to this will improve their ability to speak, learning to read, and communication skills. Children will excel in language, literacy, as well as all other subjects if they enjoy reading. 

10. Enhances Concentration

Reading with your child is crucial at this stage, even though it feels entirely frustrating reading to a toddler who continually wants to throw things around, swap books, and turn pages. Your child will learn to stay still and focus on the book for an extended period if you read to them often. To start, make reading sessions with your child short to help them enjoy the process more and eventually keep them interested in reading for a longer time. 

They will enjoy talking to you about the pictures and listening to the voices you make. This will help them when they start school because it increases their ability to concentrate. 

During the critical early development of your child's communication and literacy skills, the best, and most influential, tool available to parents is to read aloud. Through reading, your child gets to experience new and amazing things and excites their mind to a bigger world. Your child will learn to love books as well as build their imagination. Your child should regard reading as engaging, fun, entertaining, and enjoyable to spark their love for books and avidity to read. 

You can do more harm than good if your child believes that you are determined to make them learn and become discouraged and stubborn. Keep in mind that learning the art of listening is a process. You should progress slowly, then when your child is ready, change the subject matter to ignite the next round of curiosity about the world they see around them to expand their level of interest to want more. 