Has it ever occurred to you that even with the recent economic slump and recession, our country seems to continue consuming a lot? We consider mountains of wood and paper waste and just burn them daily. The beautiful countryside is being destroyed by the littered waste of enough tin cans to circle the globe. Making use of something you usually throw away is one of the best feelings you can be proud of, not only the pride of saving some cash but more so of helping the country recycle and reduce its top concern, which is waste. 

Whether to make life easier or craft a useful object, you can use the everyday items listed below that would normally be tossed away. 

1. Bags 

Paper sacks can be useful in other ways, aside from their general use. Use it as a trash can by hanging it from the back of your seat in the car. This should remove the temptation for your children to just toss their trash on the floor. When someone is in bed sick with a cold, hang a bag at the side of the bed for used tissues and wipes to prevent spreading germs. 

To quickly and easily empty the cloth bag on your vacuum cleaner, shake it out over a larger paper sack. You can also use a heavy paper bag as a cover for both ends of a rolled rug covered with paper to keep it from dust. 

2. Bottle Cap

When you have a dent, patch it with a bottle cap. Can you find dents and scratches in your wooded table? Place a wet cloth over the dented spot. Then, place the metal bottle cap at the table over the dent with the scalloped edge facing upward, not downward. Use a hot iron's tip to press the center of the cap lightly. Repair your plunger, "aka plumber's helper," by using a bottle cap. 

If the rubber at the end of the plunger keeps slipping off, tighten it into the handle by nailing a metal bottle cap at the end and pushing it into the rubber plunger to make it fit. 

3. Coat Hangers

Coat hangers have so many uses that people are inclined to write about them. We don't recommend using wire hangers to make trellises and fences because they get rusted easily. But they're flexible enough to be converted into trouser hangers by just tweaking the ends together and running a belt strap through each side end, pinching on both ends and bending the top wire upward can serve as skirt hangers with the help of some safety pins. Nothing beats a straightened coat hanger to clean and remove something wedged inside your vacuum-cleaner tube when you have no available stiff wire to use. 

You can always redneck together a drying rack for socks, stockings, and other small laundry items using two coat hangers to lash things like cake racks or discarded refrigerator shelving together. You can then conveniently hang them in a closet rod or a shower rod, which is excellent in cramped apartment spaces. 

4. Fruit Crates

Carpenters can make several different objects out of these versatile wooden items. They still have practical uses even for other people without skills. Make shelved cabinets for storing canned food items, cleaning materials under the sink, or a temporary corner emergency cabinet by using upended sectioned fruit crates. You can fasten a small curtain rod with a cup hook or small nail across the front to hang a drawstring curtain over the front to hide the contents from view. 

You can your fruit cake and think of a bookcase, turn it using a shellacked of mementos and memorabilia like menus and dance programs on the area of the crate-turned-bookcase. 

5. Milk Cartons 

Like coat hangers, empty milk cartons can be turned into many other things. For a short time, some foods can be kept in one that has been thoroughly washed out in the freezer. To save yourself from constantly washing and deodorizing regular containers for odoriferous foods like fish, you can use milk boxes, cut in lengthwise, to store these food items instead. You can do the same lengthwise cut to create seed flats for your home gardening. 

When your young plants are ready to be transplanted into the garden; it is simple to move them. You can place the plant down into the soil with the sides of the carton still intact, just cut off the bottom of the carton first. Sow your seeds thinly for this method. Also, you can make excellent plant collars for your tomato plants by cutting milk cartons crosswise; this is best in keeping cutworms away. 

6. Newspaper 

Old newspapers can be reused as a cleaning aid- isn't that some good news? When you have nothing else around you can do many things with newspapers; clean your windows, polish with dry newspaper, and swab with wet ones. When brushing your radiators clean, putting a damp newspaper under it will catch and hold down flying dust. Similarly, a dampened newspaper can be used in place of a paper bag to catch vacuum cleaner dirt. Save yourself from mopping up when defrosting by spreading some newspaper over the upper shelf of your refrigerator, below the defrosting tray, but remove it once done to avoid blocking the cold from your food. 

Newspapers can also serve as a protective agent. To keep the freshness of gift bouquets during travel, wrapping a wet newspaper around the stems will do the trick; you can also do the same for plant roots to protect them against the air. Avoid dampening yourself and your car by wrapping it up with a large plastic vegetable bag. Using 24 double pages inside a muslin cover makes an excellent substitute for a patient's or child's disposable bed pad rubber sheet. 

7. Rancid Grease 

Did you know that you can make a laundry soap out of accumulated drippings, grease, or a combination of both? To have 2 quarts of strained melted fat, collect 5 pounds of grease. Measure the fat after straining through cheesecloth. Add a single 1-pound can of lye to a quart of water as the grease is cooling. Cautiously pour this into an earthenware container or stone jar, and stir it with only a wooden spoon or stick, do not use metal. Since lye is a powerful alkali, make sure not to splash on anything, including yourself. 

Once dissolved and cooled off completely, slowly pour the lye mixture over the already cold melted grease into an enamel or earthenware container. Continuously stir the new mixture until everything is combined. Add to this 2 tablespoons of borax dissolved in 1/2 cup of water and 1/2 cup of household ammonia. Then stir until it reaches the consistency of thin pudding or honey. Once done, pour the mixture into a clay or granite mold and let it solidify for a few hours. Before it becomes fully hardened, cut the square into individual cakes. Keep the soap cakes in a dry area for about 6 weeks to allow them to harden. As the soap gets older, it lasts longer and gets harder with age. 

8. Tea

Since tea contains tannic acid, it is soothing when applied cold on a sunburn. When your eyes are tired, it also makes a soothing poultice. Lie down, then place a piece of absorbent cotton that has been dipped into strong cold tea over closed eyelids for 15 minutes. As a substitution, use tea bags that have been lightly squeezed out. 

Tea leaves are reputed as an excellent fertilizer for house plants. By adding a little bit of strong tea to a starching solution, you can prevent the white film that forms on the surface of dark cloth. Using a tea-dipped cloth for wiping varnished furniture and surfaces is also recommended. 

9. Toothbrush

If you are looking for an excellent cleaner, then look no further than your old toothbrush! It can be used to clean lint from parts of the sewing machine or dust off the typewriter keys. You can use a soft-bristled one for flossing raised patterns on your precious silverware. To make your cut glass pieces sparkly shine, use an old toothbrush with suds and some ammonia. 

Use one when you have corners that are hard to reach when dusting. With the help of a handy-dandy old toothbrush, hard-to-get-at crevices in your stove burners and waffle irons are a problem no more. Removing mud from your shoes and boots is a simple chore when using this. 

10. Towels

When you are washing delicate glassware, place an old towel down in the dishpan first. Before you place the glasses on the drainboard, place another one there. For old towels that are just a little bit worn out at the edge, stitch it over or rebind it. To reuse towels that are already worn out in the center, cut up the good sections, then hem it to use as dishcloths, washcloths, pot holders, etc. 

You can sew a shower mitt with a pocket for placing chips of soap. Make a new cover for your hot water bottle. 

The idea of reuse is as straightforward as it sounds. Find a way to make an item useful again rather than throwing it away. Reusing an item is possible no matter the size, be it as small as a button or large as a building. You can save both the environment and your pocketbook at the same time when you practice reuse. 

It just might be the right time to think like your grandmother when you next need to fix something or get something. Be creative, be practical, be Earth-friendly, and check out your local repair, rental, consignment, or vintage shops! 