Pre-schoolers and toddlers who are read to daily have a larger vocabulary compared to those who are not read to according to studies. Reading with your child offers many benefits and advantages. Reading will help a child understand how to read and write and enhance their vocabulary and when you read aloud to a child you assist them in learning topics from everyday life and about the world. 

Read on to learn why it's important to read with your children. 

1. Reading Develops Language Skills

Though you talk to your children every day, the vocabulary you use with them is often repetitive and limited. Reading books assures your child's exposure to vocabulary on diverse topics. It means they encounter words and phrases that they don't hear in their daily lives when reading a book. It would be better if your child has a wide vocabulary. 

Reading is a simple way to improve language skills and develop fluency, especially for a child who speaks more than one language. Reading is important in honing these skills. 

2. Encourages A Thirst For Knowledge

Reading to your child encourages them to ask questions about the details of the book you read to them. This allows you an opportunity for a learning experience to talk about what is going on around them. Their interest in different languages and cultures is also cultivated. It is rewarding to watch a child enjoy learning. Reading to your child inspires them to ask questions about what's being read to them. 

Strive to expose your child to books and other reading materials with diverse topics. Reading will encourage your child's interest in areas that they normally would not be exposed to, and is also a wonderful opportunity for them to learn several new things. 

3. Teaches Children About Different Topics

Just how important it is to read a wide diversity of books should never be overlooked. Exposing your child to books with diverse topics or even in different languages for bilingual kids, helps them absorb more information. Choose books with varied topics to read for your kids. Let your child read various educational books about places, animals, and objects. 

Look for books that teach children about essential life skills such as diversity, sharing, and kindness. A wonderful gift is giving one of the amazing personalized books. 

4. Develops A Child's Imagination

Nurturing your child's imagination is one of the benefits of making reading with them a habit. We imagine the actions of the characters when we interact with a book. Kids will think of the book's setting as real. One of the beautiful things to see is how excited your child's eyes are when they know or guess what's going to happen when you flip the next page. 

You should encourage them to guess what would happen next, or tell the story themselves. It will stimulate and nurture your child's imagination and will encourage them to think outside the box. 

5. Books Are A Form Of Entertainment

These days, it's so easy for your kids to get consumed with technology and gadgets. Children are drawn to smartphones, video games, television, and apps. Keep in mind that reading books that your child finds interesting can be just as fun. Selecting an exciting book to read with your child, or even allowing them to flip the pages alone, is a smarter option than all of the adverse effects of watching screens extendedly. 

One of the best benefits of how essential reading with babies and toddlers is, kids will choose to pick up a book and read for pleasure instead of any other activity. Encouraging your kids to make reading a habit at a very young age will tend to choose reading books rather than other activities when they're bored. 

6. Creates A Bond

Nothing beats time spent with your child cuddling up and reading a bedtime story. Reading, talking, and spending time together helps strengthen the bond between parents and children. Merely relaxing with your child and reading is a beautiful way to enjoy spending time while you unwind for the day and just bond together, especially for busy working parents. You can strengthen your parent-child relationship by spending more time with your child. 

One of the best ways to spend quality, one-on-one time with your child is through reading together during the day or bedtime. Talking about a book together with your child is an excellent opportunity to discover each other's thoughts, feelings, likes, and dislikes, and spending time with them shows them how valuable they are to you. This way can help develop their self-esteem and self-worth. 

7. Develops Empathy

When a child develops empathic feelings, you can also see another reason why reading is essential. It happens when children put themselves in the character's shoes. They can feel what the character is feeling after identifying. It happens as children learn to relate to and understand emotions. As empathy takes a long time to develop in children fully, they begin to understand the feelings of others at around the age of six or seven years old. 

One of the ways children can learn about feelings is by reading books. Discussing how and why the characters in a story might be feeling, helps your child learn how to empathize. 

8. Sets Them Up For Success

Knowledge is essential in all areas of life, and your children will absorb more knowledge as you read to them. Based on several studies, babies and toddlers have a headstart for school and later on when you read to them. By reading to your child, you help them learn the skills they need in starting to read by themselves. Children will become better readers later on when they benefit from critical pre-reading skills, such as turning pages and following words from left to right. 

Children will perform well in language as well as their other subjects if they enjoy reading. 

9. Promotes Brain Health

Stimulate your child's brain and help them boost their early reading skills by reading to them as often as you can. Studies show that reading to infants and toddlers at home plays an essential role in boosting functions in specific areas of the brain. Your child's language development significantly depends on these areas. When children are read to at an early age, critical areas of the brain needed for language development are affected, according to research. 

Their exposure to this will improve their ability to speak, learning to read, and communication skills. Children will excel in language, literacy, as well as all other subjects if they enjoy reading. 

10. Enhances Concentration

Reading with your child is crucial at this stage, even though it feels entirely frustrating reading to a toddler who continually wants to throw things around, swap books, and turn pages. You can help your child sit still for long periods and learn to concentrate when you read to them daily, this will help them later on in school. To start, make reading sessions with your child short to help them enjoy the process more and eventually keep them interested in reading for a longer time. 

They will enjoy talking to you about the pictures and listening to the voices you make. This will help them when they start school because it increases their ability to concentrate. 

Parents should keep in mind that reading aloud to their children helps develop their early literacy and communication skills. Through reading, your child gets to experience new and amazing things and excites their mind to a bigger world. You encourage your child in forming a positive association with books when you stimulate your child's imagination. Your child should regard reading as engaging, fun, entertaining, and enjoyable to spark their love for books and avidity to read. 

Do not discourage your child from reading by making them feel that your only intention is only to make them learn. Keep in mind that listening is gradually acquired art. When your child is primed for it, discussing different topics will spark new curiosity about their environment and will expand their thirst for knowledge as well. 