Knowing all about fat is vital since it is the main part of the ketogenic diet. Learning how fat affects you, as well as the various types of fat, can help you to triumph over your fear of fat. Fat is the primary energy source while on the Ketogenic diet. It's crucial not only to eat the correct amount of fats but to select healthy types of fat. We will look into why you should get over your fear of fat in this article. The first thing we'll go over is fats like trans fat and monounsaturated fat. 

The next thing we will discuss is why you need these fats. Following that, we'll talk about polyunsaturated fat and finish up with saturated fat. You'll be able to utilize the information in this article to eliminate your fear of fat after you have familiarized yourself with these concepts. 

1. Trans Fat

To make oils more concrete, the industrial process that creates trans fats combines hydrogen with liquid oil. For example. In addition to giving products with trans fat a self-life of over one hundred years, they are inexpensive to make and usually have a taste that is artificial, fatty, and has a buttery texture and flavor. These artificial fats are found in bakery goods that are packaged like donuts and cookies, things that are battered and fried, shortening, margarine, and pie crusts. Partially hydrogenated vegetable oil will be included on the ingredient list so that you will know it is trans fat. 

Did you know that trans fat increases the risk of type-2 diabetes, stroke, heart disease, raised your LDL cholesterol, reduces your beneficial HDL cholesterol, stroke, and lowers sperm production? Oh my goodness! It's important to avoid anything that is partially hydrogenated; you can find this on the ingredients list. 

2. Monounsaturated Fat

These MUFAs are healthy fats in foods like avocados, avocado oil, olive oil, sesame oil, olives, nuts, seeds, and dark chocolate. There are beneficial results for our heart health, cell membranes, lowering the bad LDL cholesterol and reducing fat in the liver from monounsaturated fats. They might even help reduce insulin resistance, control blood sugar and insulin levels. According to a pivotal government study, including "good" unsaturated fats into a fruit, veggie, lean protein, and whole-grain diet helped folks with prediabetes lower their risk of advancing into full-scale type 2 diabetes by sixty percent. 

Many areas of your health are benefited from consuming these fats. So, dark chocolate is something you can enjoy. 

3. Saturated Fat

You can find this kind of fat in coconuts and coconut oil, palm oil, fatty meats, cheese, lard, butter, and full-fat dairy. Back in the day, we were supposed to avoid saturated fats over everything. However, nowadays, our bulletproof coffee includes fat, such as coconut oil and grass-fed butter. Although for years, consuming saturated fat was thought to be bad for us, potentially increasing the risk for high cholesterol and heart disease; still, there was no corresponding evidence to prove it. 

However, these findings are not a license to consume more butter, bacon, and other foods with many saturated fats. You don't have to be afraid of using a couple of grass-fed butter pats on your vegetables. 

4. Why You Need Fats

Basically, in order to function, your body needs fat. To support cell growth and regeneration, produce hormones, protect insulated organs, and begin the chemical reactions that control growth, immune function, basic metabolism, and reproduction, fat is required. For the absorption of particular essential vitamins, the body needs fat. Without an adequate amount of fat, vitamins like A, D, E, and K, which are fat-soluble, cannot be adequately absorbed. To keep your eyes strong and healthy, take vitamin A. 

Your bones need vitamin D, which also helps the calcium to be absorbed in the body. Free radicals are broken up by vitamin E. Additionally, vitamin K is necessary for protecting your heart, blood clotting, and building strong bones. If you stay away from fats, it could cause you to be deficient in the vitamins necessary for your body. How can you tell if you're not eating enough fats? There are some important symptoms to look for like a lack of clarity, extreme mental fogginess, dry skin, low body temperature regulation, loss of a menstrual cycle, and continuously being hungry. You should talk to your physician as soon as possible if you have any of these signs. 

5. Polyunsaturated Fat

You can find polyunsaturated fats in fatty foods like mackerel, trout, salmon, sesame seeds, flaxseeds, hemp seeds, sunflower seeds, walnuts, soybeans, and tofu. These polyunsaturated fats supply the body with nutrients for regeneration and cell health. They are required for building cell membranes and blood clotting. The lowering of bad LDL cholesterol in the bloodstream has been connected with eating polyunsaturated fats. 

They are also comprised of the essential fatty acids like omega-6 and omega -3. These fatty acids are particularly good for your cholesterol levels as well as your heart. 

You can get over your fear of fat once you learn about the various types of fat and the effects they have on your body. Since fat is the nexus of the keto diet, it's essential to know all you can about it. Eating the right amounts of fat and selecting healthy types of fat is essential because it is the main source of energy on the ketogenic diet. We looked into the reasons and its importance to conquer your fear of fat in this article. The first thing we went over was fats like trans and monounsaturated fat. 

The next thing we explained was the necessity of fats. We then covered polyunsaturated fat and then finished up with saturated fat. You can utilize this information to conquer your fear of fat, now that you familiarized yourself with the ideas in this article. 