Why are you giving a big part of your life's energy to a job you hate? No one has said that to do well on your job, you have to love it, or that money will automatically come if you like what you do. You would see a lot of expert fishers and video gamers that are millionaires if that were the case. A lot of people don't have a choice as to which job they want due to the necessity of buying groceries and paying bills.  From time to time, finding a job that brings you enjoyment can be very beneficial to you from a productivity point of view. Let's go over some of the logic of walking away. 

1. Something Much Better Comes Along

Now might be the occasion to take the plunge if a position becomes available in a different company with like duties, increased health insurance along with a yearly salary of $65,000, especially if your only making $55,000. Lots of folks move to another company for a while and then return, as it is a way to climb the ladder of advancement. As you step out to accept an offer that is better for you, remember, you have to come back through that same door you walked out. It's always a wise choice to change things up to enhance your financial security. 

The decision that you choose is a personal one. Don't have any doubts about your decision after you have accepted the better offer. Stay true to your instincts. 

2. You’re Bored

You might finish your tasks more quickly than first thought by working more regularly and efficiently. What happens now? Your manager might have some new things you can work on if she is on the ball. Maybe it's about time to get you promoted to a more demanding position. It is vital to have a conversation. 

When others don't excel at their job or work as diligently as you do, you might be the one that has to close the gap leaving you feeling bored. Discuss your need for a position that would be more of a challenge with your boss. If the answer is no, don't just sit there; maybe it's time to make a move. 

3. You Can’t Stand Your Manager Anymore

Some say, "Those employees who leave are not walking away from their job but from their boss." The majority of people have had to deal with this at one time or another, but that isn't always the case. It isn't given that you will get along with your employer; however, when the negativity is apparent to those around you, everyone is affected. Until you can find an employer that can appreciate you, dealing with people who want to take credit for your work, micromanagers, and people who don't have your back, is something you may have to put up with. 

Because it is detrimental to one's health when a supervisor does not show that they value or have appreciation day after day for their staff member, you need to abstain from the situation. This is a good reason to look for another job. 

4. You Can’t Sustain Your Productivity

Do you feel physically exhausted all the time? Do you feel as though you have nothing left to give either mentally or physically? Do you feel like you're working too many hours? Your ability to produce is affected by these conditions. Does your employer place unreasonable demands on you?  

It is the perfect opportunity to seek other employment when there is always a crisis, it takes too long to get to work, you're consistently required to work long hours, no one will help you, it never lets up, and it seems that you can't get ahead of it. You should always put your health first. 

5. No Way For You To Maintain Productivity

You may not be able to work well in this type of job. Even though you figured you were trained and prepared correctly, this may not change. It may be difficult to function well with coworkers, or it may be so noisy you can't think straight because of the way the office is laid out. As an example, an archaeologist in the Louisiana rainforest had team members quit the first day because it was too complicated. 

These difficulties included alligators, thick hedge, and venomous snakes. It didn't take long to know that this was not the job for them. Why not choose something else, so you and others won't be distressed? 

A lot of businesses cut back on employees without giving them a second thought in this "at-will" business environment. Particularly when it's in the best interest of the company. Just remember: This option is available to you. 