Reading can be used as a standard tool for measuring your success as a member of society. It's a beneficial component in preparing your child for early education. Every school stresses the importance of this element.  The various literature and other forms of prints can be a wonderful escape for kids and is also an excellent avenue for learning. Parents play a big part as children will associate reading with them.  

The involvement and motivation of parents influence how the children deal with reading. Discover how you can motivate your child to read by helping them associate reading with happy memories. 

1. Allocate Good Periods Of Time

Avid readers will have no trouble picking up a book anytime and getting lost in it. However, this uncommon skill may take some time to build. It also takes time and effort to hold proper reading sessions. Fix your child's schedule of daily activities and make sure to set some time for "reading hour." 

This will help your child establish a reading routine. They can use this reading time to focus and achieve peace of mind. 

2. Read With Your Child

Children are fascinated by grown-up activities, so they're interested in doing them too. Seeing their parents enjoy reading will help ignite the love for reading in children. Reading with your children will inspire them to read more. Reading together is a great parent-child activity that your child can look forward to. 

Children love to imitate adults, so they hold their toy steering wheel next to their parents, driving or carry their little doll when their parent is holding the baby sibling. You'll get a similar effect if you show them you enjoy reading. 

3. Create A Little Reading Room

Your reading area doesn't have to be a whole room. A nook or corner in your home will suffice. The important thing is you have a designated area where you can read together. Allocating a dedicated reading room provides a conducive learning space for your child. Having a reading room will help your child focus better on the material they're reading. 

Ensure that your nook is cozy, well-lit, and conducive for learning. This will help encourage positive attitudes about reading in kids. 

4. Don’t Push Too Hard

If done wrong, children may find reading as a taxing activity. It is never a good idea to force your child to read materials beyond their "reading level." Pushing your child to do too much reading just won't work. Reading is all about association. 

It should be an enjoyable activity, not a chore. Pushing too hard may not have a good effect on your child's view on reading. 

5. Read To Your Children

Your children can benefit from reading aloud. One of the best reasons why you should do this is to boost your child's interest in the material, even if it's above their reading level. Another reason to read aloud to your children is to let them learn how to create and seek out stories. Reading out loud to your child inspires them to read more. 

It is also considered an excellent parent-child bonding activity. Reading together with your child, strengthens their love for reading as they grow and will help them associate reading with happy memories. 

Show your child that you enjoy reading, so they will also learn to love it. Make funny faces and use silly voices to show them that reading can be fun. If you do this, your child will be engrossed and would want to read more. Reading is a rewarding skill that can be taught to your children with ease. 

This article will guide you on what you can do to develop positive associations with reading. This will give them a kickstart in making the reading an entertaining activity. 