When creating interesting, textured, and vibrant pictures, gel pens can be one of the most flexible tools to use. You only need to know how to use gel pens to make a lot of different things. When you are wanting your picture to have a certain feel, there are various techniques that you can choose from to accomplish this. Learning how to color with gel pens is the topic of this article. How to add texture will be discussed first, including selecting the right gel pens. 

How to pick the correct color schemes will then be explained. Art mediums will then be covered and followed with how to use different tools. You will be able to take coloring to the next level with your gel pens once you know the information from this article. 

1. Choosing The Right Gel Pens

The time has come to select your gel pens, now that you have decided on a color scheme. There are many sizes of tips to choose from, just like any other type of pen. These bright, bold lines can be produced by anything from chunky tips to ultra-fine tips. It is up to your preference, you can color with any of these. When you are intending to draw with your gel pens, look for the pens that have quick-drying gel, as those are better for drawing. 

When drawing, you will tend to want more precise lines than you get for coloring. While the smudging that happens with gels that do not dry quickly is wonderful for producing coloring effects, it does not work as well for drawing in specific detail. 

2. Adding Textures That Can Intensify Your End Product

Your art can contain various textured looks when you get creative with your gel pens. Due to the vibrant and bold pigment in the gel, gel pens are ideal for adding texture. To have different looks and more character in your picture, here are some different techniques you can try using. You can choose either vertical or horizontal stripes. 

The spacing in between is another option that you can choose.  Something else fun to try, using polka dots by changing them with various colors and different sizes. Their spacing is another option you can play around with. You can achieve many different textures when using swirls with various spacing, different sizes, all in one color, or in many colors. 

3. Mixing Art Mediums

You will have vibrant, beautiful pictures just from coloring with gel pens alone. Experimentation with other mediums, such as colored pencils or crayons, mixed with gel pens is also something that you can do. They can even be used with markers. The wide variety of gel pens available has been mentioned previously. In a single picture, it is possible to gain different looks just by mixing the various ones. Mixing a white gel pen with colored gel pens will vary the shades of color you already have. Another neat trick you can use is to color one section in colored pencil, then outline it with a line from the gel pen for a cool effect. 

Then, pull the wet gel over on top of the pencil color with a tool, such as a flat-ended paintbrush, which works well. The result will look like a watercolor effect. Another contrast is to color sections in the solid matte medium of a marker, with other sections using gel pen techniques. 

4. Using Different Tools To Experiment With Blending

For blending gel pens onto the colored pencil, a flat-ended paintbrush works well. It's another way you to blend your colors. When you are coloring, there are more tools that you can use to blend the colors of different mediums. You can do this blending method using a paintbrush with a dry paintbrush or a slightly wet one so you can blend further. It will depend on what pens you select because the gel in some gel pens smudge easier than others, as you will quickly find out. Some things that are already just lying around your house can also be used as tools. 

Cotton swabs with a flat end, thin bristled paintbrushes, silicone spatulas, or pencil erasers can all be used for blending techniques. Blending with your fingers is also something that you can do. 

5. Choosing the Right Color Scheme

Before you start coloring your chosen image, one of the first things you should do is to decide and pick a color scheme. When you select colors that alter the feel and look of the picture, you can have your artwork look however you want. You can also pick the colors as you go if you prefer it that way; however, it will be more fun to experiment with various color schemes that can add different effects to your image, making it more intricate. When you pull out your gel pen art pieces, here are some color schemes for you to try. 

Inviting, comfy, and cozy feelings are elicited by using warm colors. Pinks, reds, oranges, and yellows are included. A peaceful and calming mindset is elicited from cool colors. Feelings of open expansiveness are evoked. Greens and blues are included. When you look on a color wheel, the colors found on the opposite sides from each other on the wheel are called complementary colors. As an example, when you choose yellow and blue, or red and green. When you select this type of scheme, your pictures will contain a lot of contrast. 

You just have to understand how to use gel pens to produce many different results. To achieve the feel you are wanting for your picture, there are numerous techniques to choose from. When you are wanting to create interesting, textured, and vibrant pictures, gel pens are one of the most flexible tools. We taught you how to use gel pens in this article. How to add textures is what we discussed first, including selecting the right gel pens. 

How to select the proper color scheme was then expained. Art mediums were then covered and followed with how to use different tools. You can now take your coloring with gel pens to the next level with the information you gained from this article. 