Popularity for low-carb and keto diets have grown. There are many health benefits from choosing to eat this way. Some of these health benefits include lower insulin levels, better glucose control, and sustainable weight loss. The keto community has many myths that persist. 

Some of these do not allow for the same balance that is the result of an extremely low-carb approach, they lead to disordered or unhealthy eating. To understand these myths, as well as where current experience and research stand, read on. 

1. All Low-Carb Sweeteners Should Be Avoided

Members of the keto community are critical of low-carb sweeteners. Sweeteners can cause issues during digestion, trigger cravings for refined carbs and sweets, and that even the natural ones, such as monk fruit and stevia, are still processed products leading to negative results in metabolic health are the most prevalent arguments. These criticisms, while true for the majority, fail to consider that each person has their unique response. When you do not respond well to sweeteners, it just makes more sense to stay away from them all. 

When you're on keto for a therapeutic reason and want to continue using sweeteners as you have discovered, they do not impact you, then selecting a keto sweetener that will not incur negative results on your blood glucose control, ketone levels and weight loss efforts is the best choice. 

2. Intermittent Fasting Is Best for Everyone Who Follows Keto

Most people skip either breakfast or dinner and eating only two meals in order to maintain a daily eating period of 8 hours or less. If you are not hungry in either the early morning or late day, there is no need to have three meals daily if you do well on just two. Then you should find IF as normal for you. Eating three meals per day is preferred by some of the others in the keto lifestyle. 

Those who choose to eat all three meals find that they have more energy and better control over their appetite than when on intermittent fasting. As previously mentioned, eating is individual, so neither one is better than the other. You are more likely to sustain the best long term results, once you find what feels the most natural to you. 

3. Higher Ketone Levels Lead to Enhanced Weight Loss

That higher levels of blood ketones (BHB or beta-hydroxybutyrate) increase weight loss is one of the myths permeating the keto community. People with brain cancer, neurological issues or epilepsy, and are on a ketogenic diet due to therapeutic reasons know that this is not the case. These people still maintain their weight even with 2.0 or higher ketone levels. While not distinguishing between the body's fat stores or dietary fat as the fuel source, the high level of ketones does indicate that fat is being burned. 

If the goal you wish to accomplish is weight loss, then you must have a caloric deficit, so eating more calories than the body requires will not reach this even with high ketone levels. 

4. You Need to Eat More Fat If You Aren't Losing Weight

Lowering insulin levels allowing the fat stores to be burned for energy, is a reason why keto diets are so good for losing weight. Natural appetite suppression occurs because this way of eating encourages you to consume fewer calories. Normally not eating enough fat is seldom the reason for having a weight-loss stall while on a keto diet. If you are not ingesting 0.6 grams of fat per pound (1.3 grams per kilogram) of your ideal body weight, increase your protein a little first before raising your fat intake. 

Be sure you are not consuming excess carbs or calories from packaged foods or low-carb treats, include more activity, and altering when you eat are just some of the ways to deal with a weight loss plateau. 

5. Some Foods “Aren't Keto”

That even small amounts of certain whole foods are not harmonious with keto is a common adverse belief. It is composed of dairy products, such as buttermilk and certain vegetables and fruits. This understanding is a mistake. Practically every whole food is acceptable in a keto lifestyle if eaten in small amounts in a recipe. There are quite a few people who require high ketone levels and must ruthlessly keep carbs low for neurological health. 

With the macronutrient ratio of 3:1 to 4:1, most people are eating between three to four times the amount of fat as the combination of protein and carbs for a classical keto diet. It is around 225 to 300 grams of fat per day, along with 60 grams of protein and 15 grams of carbs for a person eating approximately 1500 calories per day. 

6. One Way of Low-Carb Eating Fits All

When carbs are limited to less than 100 grams per day, less than 50 grams per day, as well as less than 20 grams per day during research, both weight loss and blood glucose have seen improvement. Some people realize that they are better off for the long term with a non-keto diet, regardless that so many others receive greater benefits from a very-low-carb ketogenic diet. Everything is dependent upon each person. Some people can only tolerate small amounts of fiber, while others thrive on a low-carb high-fiber diet. 

When you raise the amount of fiber in your keto lifestyle, it is possible for your "net carb" and "total carb" intake to vary by 25 grams or more, over a low-fiber diet that will remain similar. Most likely, you will need to experiment around a little bit to find what works best for you, or you can just follow a strict keto system and maybe get the results you want. 

7. Eating Too Much Protein Can Stall Weight Loss

Concerns that while on a keto or low-carb diet, consuming too much protein can interfere with weight loss have been raised in several places such as social media, online forums, and even in books. This is a fairly new concept. Nor has any scientific research or anecdotal evidence to support this has been published yet. In fact high-protein low-carb diets such as South Beach, Stillman and Atkins have all proven weight loss. 

Appetite is suppressed with protein. Muscle mass is maintained and the metabolic rate is also increased. 

With a large volume of information about keto in specific and nutrition in general, it is difficult to know what to believe. Regardless of there not being supporting evidence, once something has been shared and repeated over social media, many people eventually believe it to be a fact. Keto has strict guidelines that should be followed. You must learn what is best for you before you can create a working low-carb lifestyle. 

Remember that you will need to experiment and tweak to satisfy your constantly evolving needs. Learn how to eat naturally and healthily that recognizes the personal needs of your body, do not become stuck on the keto myths. 