How about we have a fat chat. There are tons of questions regarding healthy fats and which ones you should eat or drink. So, what are the foods you should avoid, and which fats are healthy for you? When it comes to dairy, do you pick low-fat or fat-free products instead of the full-fat option? Just how much fat is the right amount to eat? We all know that the keto diet is fat-focused, so it is crucial to learn everything about fats. Fortunately for us, clean fats, such as avocado (yay!), are indeed healthy, and eating them is definitely a big check.  

However, some uncertainties surrounding dietary fat exist up to this day, and more than a handful of unhealthy fats are still lurking behind our favorite foods. Here, you will be introduced to the different types of fat and how each can impact your health. Find out what are the 6 basic facts about fats that will help you kick out your fat-fright! 

1. Why You Need Fats

Basically, fat is required for your body to function. Fat is responsible for beginning chemical responses that affect normal metabolism, growth control, immune function, reproduction and is required for producing hormones, storage and production of energy, insulation and protection of organs, supports regeneration
and cell growth. For the body to soak up certain crucial vitamins fat is required. Without an adequate amount of fat, fat-soluble vitamins such as vitamins A, D, E, and K won't be absorbed by the body properly. Vitamin A can help in keeping your eyes healthy and strong. 

Vitamin D is required so your bones will be able to absorb calcium. For your body to fight free-radicals, vitamin E is important. Protecting your heart, building strong bones, and blood clotting need the essential vitamin K. These essential vitamins can have a severe deficiency when you cut too many fats out. So, how can you tell if you're not eating the right amount of fats? Watch out for the most crucial signs like Loss of a menstrual cycle, being always hungry, poor regulation of body temperature, extreme mental fogginess and lack of clarity, and dry skin. It is best to see your doctor immediately if you notice any of these symptoms coming up. 

2. Saturated Fat

Saturated fats are found in fatty meats, full-fat dairy, lard, butter, coconuts, dark chocolate, and palm and coconut oils. The perception of avoiding saturated fat at all costs has long gone. These days we are able to add fat like this to our bulletproof coffee such as coconut oil and grass-fed butter. Saturated fat was perceived to be inherently bad for your health for many years, as it was assumed to increase one's cholesterol and risk of heart diseases, however, no matching proof has been established between consuming this type of fat and increasing the risk of cardiovascular diseases. 

The data doesn't give us the "go ahead" to eat additional foods high in saturated fats which include more butter and bacon. However, you should never fear a portion of some grass-fed butter on your baked sweet potato. 

3. Polyunsaturated Fat

The following foods contain fats that are polyunsaturated such as sesame seeds, sunflower seeds, hemp seeds,    flaxseeds, walnuts, and fatty fish like trout, salmon and  mackerel. Nutrients needed for regeneration and the health of the cells are provided by these fats. They are needed in building cell membranes and blood clotting. Reducing the LDL or bad cholesterol levels in the bloodstream is being linked to consuming polyunsaturated fats. 

The omega-3 and omega-6 fatty acids which are necessary are also what help to make up polyunsaturated fats. Your cholesterol levels and your heart find these acids to be beneficial. 

4. Monounsaturated Fat

Also known as MUFAs, monounsaturated fats can be found in foods like avocados and avocado oil, olives and olive oil, sesame oil, nuts, seeds, and dark chocolate. Lowering LDL (bad) cholesterol, reducing fatty liver, heart health, and cell membranes are benefits of monounsaturated fats. They also contribute to reducing insulin resistance, regulating insulin levels, and controlling blood sugar too. Based on a landmark government study, giving a fruit-veggie-lean-protein-whole-grain diet with ‘good’ unsaturated fats to patients with prediabetes have helped to lower their risk of developing Type-2 diabetes by almost 60 percent. 

Numerous areas of your health will benefit when you eat these fats. So now, you can indulge in that dark chocolate without the guilt! 

5. Trans Fat

Liquid vegetable oils are added with hydrogen to make them more robust (i.e., to extend the shelf life of a product for more than a hundred years) through an industrial process, thus creating trans fats. Because this process gives an artificial, fatty, buttery, taste, and texture to food products, and is cheap, food producers use trans fats. They are usually found in anything fried and battered, margarine, shortening, pie crusts, packaged bakery products like cookies and donuts, and many more. Seeing partially hydrogenated vegetable oil on a product's ingredient list is an indicator that it is trans fat. 

Lowered sperm production, reduced beneficial HDL cholesterol, raised LDL cholesterol, increased risk of type-2 diabetes, heart disease, and stroke are known results from trans fats. Uh-oh! It is vital that you are aware of what is on the list of ingredients and if you see anything that is partially hydrogenated stay away from it. 

6. Pay Attention To What You Buy

Eye-catching fat-free and low-fat labels are marketing gimmicks you should avoid when doing grocery shopping. Products under these tags have usually undergone numerous refining procedures and are overprocessed. Any good they provided is over shadowed by the harm they cause the body. It's a good idea choose the full-fat, organic version when eating meat, butter, yogurt, cheese and peanut butter, etc. 

Unfortunately, other not so pleasant things are added when the fats are removed from foods. The normal salt, sugar, and thickeners along with mystery ingredients. 

Our food contains several macronutrients or macros which fat is one of. Fat is the primary source of energy when you are on a low-carb or keto diet. Selecting and consuming the best kinds and the correct amounts are vital.  The majority of folks won't find it necessary to keep track of fat grams or calories on a ketogenic or carbohydrate restricted regimen. 

Most people can eat as much fat as they can to feel satiated after a meal but must keep their carbs intake low and their proteins in moderate amounts. In this article, you have learned the different types of fat and how each can impact your body and health. Here you discovered other vital truths about fats and what you should look for in food labels to help you get over your fear of fat. You can now enjoy keto life at its best. 