Breakfast - the most important meal of the day, so we're told. However, that doesn't mean that grabbing just anything for breakfast will do. Your breakfast should always be healthy, it is the first meal of the day. And starting your day the right way is one important aspect of following a keto diet. This article will give you a few tips to help you reach your keto diet goals faster while still enjoying a great day. Having an outdated view of what determines a healthy breakfast is descriptive of most people. 

When you are on a specific diet you need to be watchful of the items you consume during breakfast. How the rest of your day will turn out can be impacted by the food choices you make at the start of the day.  Here, you will be introduced to the importance of eggs in your diet. There are several attributes about having a protein-rich breakfast that make it the most important meal of the day, including reducing snacking during the evening. When on keto, use these tips for eating smart in the morning. 

1. Eggs And People With High Cholesterol Don't Mix

Did you know that eggs are one of the best healthy breakfast options for those who love their meat a lot? Of course, it's quite contradictory to the age-old nutritional guideline we knew, but it has been ruled in. Eggs, including its yolks, are good for you! In 2015 the US Dietary Guidelines officially exonerated eggs without finding any connection between heart disease and dietary cholesterol, after telling us for decades to avoid them. Eating any eggs cooked in any way is not what this is referring to. 

Chickens that have outside access and are fed a natural diet produce the best eggs, so select those that are pastured. Eggs from grass-feed, free-range chickens are known to be richer in omega-3 fatty acids and vitamins A and E. According to some physicians, the best way to consume eggs is partially runny, this makes it imperative that you are choosing healthy eggs from a trustworthy source. 

2. You Can Eat Protein-Rich Breakfast Every Day

What can you eat if you are not having muffins, pancakes, or cereal? So that you have fuel for the entire day and stay full you should select a combination of fat mixed with protein. Not only is evening snacking reduced when you choose a breakfast rich in protein, but you stay satisfied longer. Eating a protein-rich breakfast aids in reducing ghrelin- the hunger hormone. 

It also promotes the increase of the hormone, cholecystokinin, which signals the appetite center in the brain that you're full. High protein foods like eggs, protein shake, or nut butter keep your blood sugar levels stable and minimize metabolic rate fluctuations for the rest of the day.  

3. Oatmeal Isn't The Best Choice

Many "healthy choices" that are considered as breakfast muffins, toaster concoctions, and all forms of cereal, actually contain more sugar than ice cream, which you would never dream of eating for breakfast. There can be disastrous results on the remainder of your day when you consume that much sugar first thing in the morning. A vicious cycle of craving carbs and sugar that will linger throughout the day happens when you start your day by eating sugar. Regardless of what we were taught growing up, oatmeal can set off this vicious cycle, too, as well as most of the granola bars, bran muffins, and yogurts that are flavored with fruit. 

Microwavable or instant oatmeal often contains lots of sugar. You are left hungry even when you select plain, steel-cut oats because your blood sugar and insulin will spike. Since oatmeal has such a high glycemic index, you are guaranteed to overeat during the rest of your day, although it is a better choice than sugary cereal. 

4. Be Careful With Your Juice Consumption

Drinking fruit juice does not make you full the same way as eating a whole fruit does. This occurs because of the fiber in the whole fruits. Moreover, the brain detects calories in drinks differently than calories in foods. And because of those factors, you can consume more calories in drinking fruit juices or sugar-laden beverages than in eating whole fruits. When your juice is mostly vegetables, do not think that you are safe. 

The vegetables popular in juices are the sweeter ones like beets and carrots, so the body has the same reaction as it does with fruit due to the higher sugar content. If you want to add juice to your breakfast, pair with something hearty to make it healthier and more satiating for longer. 

5. It's Okay To Skip Breakfast

As the popularity of intermittent fasting has grown, the old belief that skipping breakfast is bad for you is now being challenged by experts. For the longest time, breakfast has been regarded as the most important meal of the day. But the truth is, it is merely "one of those meals." Extended overnight fasting, with a perfectly timed last meal of the day and the following breakfast, can bring amazing results. 

Some experts have seen that intermittent fasting exhibited as a beneficial agent for faster cell repair and weight loss. It can be best to skip breakfast altogether when you are running short on time rather than eating tons of sugary junk. 

How people view food is beginning to alter as the popularity of the keto diet, which includes lifestyle changes and intermittent fasting, has grown. It is important to make yourself look and feel good. It is easy to strengthen your health when you begin your day correctly with a healthy breakfast. Indeed, it's about time that you put away old-fashioned misconceptions. Following these tips should make it much easier to have a healthy breakfast. 

You know that a breakfast loaded in proteins can stop you from an endless munching throughout the day. You know and understand how dangerous consuming high-sugar breakfast cereals are to your eating habits. To take full advantage of the most important meal of the day, start helping yourself by using the tips found in this article. This guide can keep you on track to your journey of living a successful ketogenic lifestyle! 