How Rhyming Skills Improve Reading

Within the recent past, not even as long as 50 years or so, parents very commonly would sing short songs, chants and rhymes to their young children. These were often accompanied by hand actions, games, bouncing, and even rhythmic dancing. Current research shows that this trend is fading away. Very vital benefits are now being lost by the next generation as their exposure to songs and rhymes is dwindling. Rhyming, singing, and storytelling don't require much and can be easily done anytime or anywhere. 

No matter what activity your child is engaged in, eating, bathing, taking a walk, riding in the car, or sitting quietly, you can easily repeat a rhyme or lyric. Doing this integrates learning as a daily activity without conscious thought. Constantly using rhythm, repetition and rhyming is a solid foundation on which to develop your child's literacy skills early in life; thus strengthening the brain during development by absorbing more ideas and words. 

Using this consistency allows your child to have a secure foundation to use in education. Using rhythm, songs and rhymes, to catch your child's attention is also a fun way to learn. A child can learn the sound of a word even before knowing the meaning. These six reasons explain why rhymes play an important role in early literacy. 

1 Rhyming Improves Memory And Cognitive Development

While nursery rhymes appear to be menial, they include the steps that help a child to have sharp recall and form memory skills. Rhyming versus almost always follows the pattern of having a beginning, a middle and an end. Using rhymes will help a child remember cause and effect as well as sequential orders. Your child will begin to see and connect sounds and words in a new light, once they learn how to use rhymes. Now children when encounter unknown words they are able to assimilate and infer the meaning by using nursery rhymes as a foundation to develop their contextual skills.  

Nursery rhymes also teach children how to segment words into phonemes. Thus, a child's decoding skills and comprehensive abilities are improved. The fiery imagery locked in a young child's mind is released by the gripping mental pictures inspired by songs and rhymes. Rhyming verses are entertaining; this is why children pick them as their choice of reading material. 

2 Rhyming Develops Literacy

Better reading skills often occur in those who constantly use rhymes, as several studies indicate. Word constituents and phonetics will come easy to children who are nursery rhyme readers. When a child says the basic phrase "the cat on the mat has a hat," they understand that "at" is the common denominator. Children will understand phonemic awareness if they learn words this way. In the future, your child will not have any problems with comprehending what they read. Studies made on the literacy levels of school-aged children show that those who were exposed to rhymes are more advanced than those who weren't. 

It shows how important it is to focus on rhymes, songs, and activities related to rhythm even before your child goes to school. Make rhymes a part of your daily activities like singing while taking a bath, brushing teeth, and getting dressed. "This is the way we wash our hands, eat our veggies, brush our teeth, clean the room..." and "Here we go round the mulberry bush..." are great daily-activity song choices with catchy rhythms. Expose your child to the fun world of rhymes as early as you can. 

3 Rhyming Promotes Language Development

The learning of language is increased in many ways by using rhymes. While listening to,  and remembering rhymes, a child will constantly hear the sounds of consonants and vowels. Children will learn how to form words when they speak rhymes. Children will also be able to communicate effectively as well as learn proper pitch, rhythm, and inflection. When you introduce a child to unknown words that expand their imagination with nursery rhymes, for example the "Old Woman Who Lived in a Shoe",  you are increasing their vocabulary. 

Children will learn to understand new words when they try to act out the rhymes they know.  When they do this, they'll know how to differentiate words that rhyme and words that don't. Playing rhyming games to while away the time helps strengthen these skills. Giving your child a word, say "pig," and letting them think of other words that rhyme with it is an entertaining activity for both parent and child. 

4 Encourages Social And Emotional Development

Despite the abundance of verified evidence, most still view rhymes as having no substance and being a waste of time. While a child is just enjoying themselves, they are actually learning memory skills, language, and the fundamentals used in reading when reciting rhymes. Consider creating a rhyming book together when your child becomes proficient at rhyming. Take the word "fish" for example, start a section by writing your word across the top of your page in fun, bold, big letters, and then gathering as many words as they can think of that rhyme. The foundation of childhood literacy can be strengthened through rhymes. 

Your child is being prepped for their future reading skills when you let them listen to the rhyme, "Jack Be Nimble."  It's been shown that there's a connection between identifying which words rhyme and knowing why they rhyme. Great rhymers also usually end up becoming good readers.  

5 Good Rhymers Tend To Be Good Readers

Studies have shown that there is a compelling relationship between mastering rhymes and the child's ability to grasp reading concepts. You can build your child's literacy skills by letting him master rhyming. While repeating, and listening to, rhyming verses, a preschooler will start to hear the phonetic sounds that make up the words and understand matching sounds. Stimulate your child's speech development and literacy skills by introducing them to rhymes. 

Rhyming fosters your child's discriminative listening skills. It is important for grasping the essence of words. 

6 Rhyming Develops Speech

Rhyming can improve your child's voice and pitch modulation, as well as their articulation. No one criticizes a child who reads rhymes in a loud and foolish manner. The rhythm and humorous content of nursery rhymes make it appealing for kids. Reading the words in rhymes exercises the mouth and jaw muscles. 

Frequently overlooked, is that using rhymes often improves a child's comprehension and listening skills. The use of rhythm and rhymes can effectively teach this skill. Word segmentation is easier to understand when your child works with lines and verses. 

Along with gaining a larger vocabulary, increased phonemic awareness and auditory discrimination are benefits improved by using rhyming skills and rhymes. These skills are the foundation of your child's literacy. If your child is armed with these, they will be able to learn how to speak, write, and communicate with ease. Rhyming is an entertaining way to learn, so it's not difficult to include it in your daily routine. 

Rhymes allow children to take their literacy skills to the next level, so never take this learning process for granted. Make your child ready and competent in the modern world by sparing some time to read rhymes and speak in verses. 