A good sign that you are on the right path towards reaching your goals and ambitions are the side effects that come with moving forward, even though they can be hard to spot. When these less obvious changes occur, you can be assured that you are doing your best. To learn the five indications that show that your life is obviously changing for your benefit read on. 

1. You Know When To Take A Breath

Your concentration is on your job, the desire to improve yourself, life and your side job. The consistent urge to better yourself is quiet when you understand the need to slow down and enjoy the life surrounding you. You're able to do something that many people are unable to do. 

Even those gurus who spout self-improvement. There are occasions when you just need to let productivity be idle, OK? I want my friends to drink, eat, and be merry. 

2. You Start Trusting Your Gut Feelings

There might be a chance that your always looking at someone that works in your same building. The instinctive feeling that you need to know them comes suddenly. On the grounds that it's strange you would ordinarily forget it. You make the time to speak with them from just a feeling this time. And you never know, you might just come across a new friend who offers you life-changing advice and inspires you. 

That you listened to and followed your intuition is what counts. 

While intuition is always whispering to us, we are too noisy or busy to hear what it says. You are connected to something incredible when you are constantly doing unusual things that you were compelled to. You are starting to wake up. 

3. You Laugh At Your Negative Thoughts

It's okay to want to figure out how assumptions and thought patterns that are negative might be effecting your beliefs and clouding your brain. Truly. When you find yourself just bursting out loud with laughter at the rude comment that scared little voice whispered in your mind, that correction is the best one. You have accomplished your goal. You have become aware of the occurrence of negative thoughts. 

You are aware that your thoughts are not in control of you. They are apart from you. Just continue to laugh at them. 

4. You Are More Aware Of Your Senses

It might be as simple as the taste of this grapefruit is exceptional. When did this become so good? Most people are completely oblivious, regardless of just how insignificant this seems. You are no longer just sleepwalking through your life when you begin to notice things like the changes in your body when you sweat from exercise, the exquisite taste of food in your mouth,and the warmth of the sun on your face when you go outside. 



5. You Are Changing Your Circle

Even though you have been around friends and family for a long time you just may feel separated from them. You may leave you feeling hurt and bewildered. Keep in mind you will be moving toward individuals that feel right and away from ones that don't. One good thing you can do is to deliberately select the friends you want in your life. 

The perspective you have on the world adjusts when you change the people around you. Now that you are spending time and energy with new people that were not in your life last year you will want to spend more time with them as they mirror all the things you like about yourself. It feels good to be around them. They do believe. You can learn from them. 

Occasionally the adjustments you make are done on purpose and other times you are not even conscious of it. When life affords you the freedom to modify the areas that are            standing in the way of your achievements or the decision to remove it altogether you will need to decide daily as to whether you will or will not take the opportunity. 