One top priority that parents should give their attention to is motivating their children to love learning. Students will be more inclined to spend their time and energy setting goals for themselves and learning if a lifelong love for learning is instilled in them. The key to stimulating a love for learning is starting it at an early age because all children are instinctively curious and love to explore. As we all know it, making mistakes is one of the best ways for us to learn. 

However, some parents have no idea that there isn't a single perfect way for a child to learn. Avoid discouraging your child if you noticed that they are learning in a way that is different from what their teachers are teaching them. If your child still achieves their learning goals even if they're learning differently, then this could be a manifestation of their creativity and ingenuity. 

1. Discuss, Don't Lecture

Let's discuss that puddle again. Try asking your child what's their idea of how the puddle came to be rather than making a long speech about how it was made. Find out if you may be able to come up with several answers and then settle on a correct one in the end. It might be that someone has poured a bucketful of water in there, or it might be some rainwater in the hole. No matter how an answer seems so funny or wrong, be keen to discuss it with your child. 

Let the imagination of your child fly high. Then with your child's input, discuss how each scenario would have had happened. 

2. Don't Use Negative Correction

It could be a challenging task. You may find your child saying "du" with a bright smile while holding up a shoe. Instinctively, you will immediately want to correct your child by saying, "No, it's 'shoe' honey." And then, you show them how to sound it out and make them repeat it again and again. And that beautiful smile fades away. Now, here's a child who may not know yet how to pronounce the word "shoe" accurately but felt so proud to think that they have learned and said the name of this object correctly because they heard you say it countless times. Let's put it this way; you're looking at a kid who is persistently attempting to do something even if they're doing it the wrong way. 

Rather than telling them directly that they're wrong, try doing it subtly like "This might be easier for you," or "How about you try this if it works." By doing it this way, you are rewarding their efforts with success without making them feel that they failed or have disappointed you. 

3. Let Them Lead

A child's hows and whys are the two things you'll most often hear from them. Sparing some of your time to answer your child's questions allows them to take you to the next path of their learning. However, you don't need to lecture them or give lengthy explanations that might make them lose interest. Just give them straightforward answers and be ready for more questions. Your answers may satisfy your child's curiosity at the moment, and they may not bug you about it for several days, or it may lead them to ask for additional information on the spot, so you may need to discuss more on the subject. 

Without diving too much into the topic, if you're able to satisfy their curiosity consistently, they'll count on you again once they want more. Carefully observe their questions, and what interests them so that you will know where to focus your efforts when teaching them. 

4. Allow Exploration

Allow your child to jump into the puddle and discover what happens next. Let them explore the puddle through another way by handing him a cup, a stick, and a stone. Always be ready and willing to answer their questions, but allow them to explore on their own. Don't hesitate to ask your kid leading questions that will make them explore more, but don't aim at getting the answers right away. Remember that there will be other days and other puddles to explore. 

The questions will be endless, and a lot more discoveries together. You may realize that in the process of teaching your child, you are learning a few things yourself as you experience them with your child. 

5. Allow Them To Fail

Some disappointments may be wounding to a young child's vulnerable ego, who never learns that he would sometimes encounter failure. Children must know that not everyone can do things faultlessly at the first try, and most of all, nobody's perfect. The important thing is not allowing their failures to stop them from trying again continuously until they succeed. Try to discuss with your child what they think might be the reason why something didn't work out as intended. 

Make plans together for something different that they can do next time to achieve success. It will teach the child that it is not the end if they fail at something once or even twice more. It just means it is a chance for them to search for another strategy to go around the hurdle. 

6. Make Learning Relevant

Associate ideas with what your child is interested in or cares about. Children would have fun playing with rainbow-colored flashcards, but would quickly get boring after the first time. Set the ideas in a form relevant to your child's day-to-day activities, for instance, looking for the letter "A" on street signs or counting red cars while walking out. Grocery shopping with your kids can help them learn that a can of beans and one can of beans is precisely similar with two cans of beans, apples are red while bananas are yellow, and 50 cents is less than a dollar, which means they will still have some money left to buy some sweets. 

No matter what age your child is, there will be lessons to learn. These lessons are likely to be remembered better since they are related to what your child already knows and understands. 

7. Put Them In The Situation

Come up with various learning set up for your child. Allow your child to talk to a friendly veteran in a wheelchair. Bring them to places where they can freely touch things such as interactive science museums. Avoid assuming that they're not yet old enough to enjoy an art show or experience the fun of an outdoor concert. 

Any situation that is entirely safe for your child is a suitable learning opportunity. By exposing your child to different types of people and situations, you will be giving them the opportunity to discover what the world has in store for them and stir their curiosity to explore more of the unknown to them. 

8. Show Your Love of Learning

Your kids will learn better with your example. Don't stop looking for your opportunities to learn. Show your child your sense of accomplishment and pride in successfully learning new knowledge or skill. Let them correlate learning with awesome feelings by seeing how much it can make you happy. 

Although you might see your child as a self-involved brat, seeing someone they love, especially their mom, beaming with happiness is one of the magnificent sights for a child. Allow your learning to bring a different kind of smile to your child. 

If you notice your child's particular interests, be willing to include them in their learning. Pick books, activities, interactive videos, games, and other methods of learning with current relevance to captivate your child's engagement. Consider your child's interests when choosing their activities to give them an enjoyable learning time and prevents them from feeling forced to learn. Supporting your child's teacher by intentionally including their lessons in the classroom in your child's learning activities may be the boost they need to grasp the topic better and make connections. 

Simple questions like, "What did you do and learn in school today?" is an excellent way to refresh their memories. Furthermore, studies show that teaching another person about a particular subject can also become a learning experience for you! 