You can have difficulty knowing what to expect when following a low-carb, high-fat diet in regards to weight loss, as very little research has been done on keto. It is not easy to get the strict keto diet correct.  For example, you are restricted in regards to many foods, limited fruits and no starchy vegetables while staying away from sweets, grains, juice and sauces. You will need to consume a lot of fats, according to the keto food list. Your weight loss is increased when your body enters the metabolic state of ketosis, where it burns fat rather than carbs. There are multiple forms of fat but nearly everything contains carbs. 

This is where mistakes can occur as not all are healthy. For those just starting the keto lifestyle this is even more true. In order to keep yourself safe, try to avoid the most common mistakes of keto. 

1. Getting Caught Up In Carb-Counting 

Everything else just feels incidental while you are completely focused on the goal of cutting carbs. You may cut carbs from your diet to boost your health; however, it'll be best to consume high-quality, keto-approved products. Instead of choosing keto-approved processed treats, try snacking on whole foods that are high in omega-3, such as grass-fed organic meats and wild salmon. To the best of your ability, try to maintain a balanced diet. 

The more nutrient-rich vegetables and fruits that you include will help with this. Since nutrient deficiencies can occur while on keto, there are quite a few registered dietitians that do not support it. While on keto, you can use the assistance of an RD to help you avoid these. 

2. Not Paying Attention to Your Veggie Intake

Carbohydrates are found in vegetables. Even with lettuce, you must be careful with how much you eat. It is far too easy to interrupt ketosis when you are not careful or over-indulge in carbs.  Eventually, when counting each baby carrot becomes tedious, you just might start shunning vegetables completely. However, you need to properly count your carbs and maintain small portions as the fiber contained in vegetables is necessary to prevent constipation.  

In order to get the best variety of nutrients, you should choose various colors of non-starch vegetables. Asparagus, bell peppers, broccoli, cauliflower, cucumber, leafy greens and tomato are the best choices for you to eat. 

3. Going It Alone and Not Clearing the Diet With Your Doc

Often, many people with medical conditions choose to follow a keto diet for therapy reasons. If this is your plan, be sure to talk with your doctor about it first to make sure that they agree with you. If you are taking medication, this is even more important. Your healthcare provider might need to make some adjustments to your medications. 

As your signs and symptoms begin to change, they can make these adjustments. As you lower your carbohydrates, for example, your insulin dosage also may need to be lowered. 

4. Not Salting Your Food Enough

Most likely you are not used to being told to eat more salt, not with so many processed foods containing such high amounts. However, it is necessary when you are on keto. As your salt intake is lower, you also lose more sodium during the process of ketosis. The components of salt are 60 percent chloride and 40 percent sodium. 

When you remove bread, crackers, cookies, chips and other processed and packaged foods, the highest amounts of salt are taken out of the normal American diet. You will need to prepare the majority, or all, of your snacks and meals once you have chosen a ketogenic diet. Just use salt as seasoning. 

5. Not Preparing Yourself for the Keto Flu

The "keto flu" is something that many people go through as their body switches to being a fat burner from a carbohydrate burner. Fatigue, nausea, aches and muscle cramps are among the flu-like symptoms. The first two weeks of following a keto diet is when this normally happens. Fortunately, some people do avoid this. You might think something drastic has occurred and stop following a diet,  if you have not become aware of this possibility. 

You can do your menu planning and meal preparation to pull yourself through the low energy portion of your transition. To lessen the symptoms of keto flu, you should chose hydrating foods that are high in sodium, magnesium and potassium. 

6. Forgetting to Eat Foods Rich in Omega-3 Fatty Acids

Do not rely on just cream, bacon and cheese only for your high fat diet. The fats found in mussels, oysters, salmon, herring and sardines contain the EPA and DHA anti-inflammatory omega-3s, so be sure to include these in your fat choices. You can also take krill oil or cod liver oil if eating seafood does not appeal to you. You can even chose other healthy fats as well. 

You should include some seeds like flaxseed and chia seeds are good examples, as well as olive oil and avocado to the items you stock up on. These contain the healthy monounsaturated and polyunsaturated fats that you need for your body to perform at it's optimal level, and are keto-friendly. 

7. Not Drinking Enough Water On Keto

Do not forget about what you are drinking while concentrating so much on your food. With keto there is a higher risk of becoming dehydrated. Your fluid and electrolyte balance is altered as you decrease your intake of carbohydrates while on a ketogenic diet. As you deplete the stores of carbs in your body, the water stored with them is also lost. 

Both sodium and water are also flushed from the body with the excess of ketones in urine. Drink up, that is all you need to say. Have a large glass of water when you wake up. During the entire day constantly sip. Drinking half of your body weight in ounces of water each day is your goal. 

8. Cutting Your Carbs and Increasing Your Fat Too Much Too Quickly

Switching to a keto diet of only 20 grams per day of carbs, and only the day before you were eating pasta, cereal, and sandwiches. This is the starting amount recommended most often. Just as a reference, a medium apple has only 25 grams of carbs. Your body would have an extreme change. 

Going slow is a consideration. Instead of cutting out carbs suddenly, tapering your carbohydrate intake down first before you begin a keto diet would be more beneficial. 

There are many ways to make a mistake while on the keto diet, having a donut is one of them. Eating more fats and less carbs is the simple premise of the keto diet. It is not easy to strictly stay away from most fruits, bread, sugars, potatoes and beer. You will find the posts of people who have failed when trying the keto diet all over the message boards. Keeping your body in a constant state of ketosis is not easy. 

The majority of foods available at grocery stores, restaurants and fast food shops in today's society are full of carbs. People often experience the same side effects, showing just how difficult it is to maintain a healthy keto diet. As you get around the majority of these mistakes, it is possible to gain exceptional benefits when you successfully follow a keto diet. 