While you can easily determine a child's milestones with a few physical signs, their early development years can also be established through social and emotional growth. The emotional and social development play a significant part in every child's life and is critical. After they grow up, this forms the foundation for their life. This foundation helps a child interact with others positively, deal with their emotions, respect others' thoughts, as well as having compassion for the feelings of others. 

How your child performs in school and the future will be determined by all these things. Hence, discussed here are the different developmental phases of your child's emotional and social characteristics that you should learn. It is crucial to your child that they develop social and emotional skills. 

1. Definition Of Emotional Development

Emotional growth starts during a child's earliest years, and the learning continues as they grow older. An infant depends on their parents or babysitters to recognize their cues because they can only communicate what they are feeling non-verbally. The expressions they use coincide with their ability to manage their feelings. The cultural and social aspects not only of family but also of surroundings greatly influence emotional expressions. 

The relationship between a child and their caretaker provides the child the means to express their emotions, both positive and negative, in a manner that is culturally and socially acceptable. There is a high possibility for a child to suffer considerably later in life if they are unable to go through proper emotional development. 

2. Social Development Is Important

It assists your kid to act with appropriate behavior down the road. A child learns to understand life and gain control throughout this transition into an adult from social development.  A child's future is shaped by their social and emotional development. It helps a child to shape their future through their emotional and social development. While their emotions are in control, they can make decisions regarding their ambitions. Having their social skills developed allows children to listen attentively to instructions given by their parents and teachers, as well as work together and play with their peers. 

While participating in various activities they can have a smooth transition. By teaching your child emotional skills, you are allowing them to learn how to control and express their emotions. 

3. From Birth To Six Months

From birth, babies begin to learn many things actively. They gain an understanding of themselves and about the people around them at home. At this stage, your baby should be able to suck their little fingers or focus their gaze on their hands. When a baby's body is touched, they will try and see where you are touching them and start to learn that they not only love being soothed but need the comfort that their parents give. A key element to take into consideration during this time is social interaction. 

Babies between the ages of three to six months can respond to you when you call their names. Growing babies love to play peek-a-boo with you and easily laugh or smile every time you make silly noises. 

4. From Six Months To A Year

Babies will show a liking to members of their family at this stage of their emotional development. The emotions of fear, sadness, anger, and happiness will start to be expressed by a child. They are able to differentiate between strangers and family members. Additionally, they will start to get annoyed if their favorite things and toys are taken away. Anywhere from nine months to one year old, your baby starts to become responsible and sociable. 

Learning self-control is valuable at this point. Your baby should be able to imitate actions that are easy and hold a cup while drinking from it. 

5. From One Year To Four Years

Children like to explore things in their environment, and your child will probably do so too. They attentively watch people move around them and feeling more aware of themself. And the toddler stage starts when they turn two years old. Their confidence will be increased, and they will start to become creative. They will also experience frequent mood swings. Being extremely independent happens around the age of three. 

The ability to share their toys with friends and siblings starts. Your child will start following instructions too. Set up games and invite their friends to join in. 

6. From Four Years to Six Years

Your child will start to become aware of their individuality around the age of four. Development of reasoning skills and motor skills occur. Four-year-olds can already tell good behavior from bad. They know how to compare themselves to others. They are comparing themselves with others. Trying to understand someone else's feelings is something your child can do at 6 years old. 

And, they will begin to be more competitive with others. They will learn to follow instructions correctly. Creative things like drawing will begin to catch their interest. 

7. From Seven Years To Twelve Years

The age they start to school. While emotional outbursts are a normal experience for your child at this age, they will fit well with their peers. They begin to have a desire to learn key subjects like social studies and math. The majority of children at this age have developed a self-disciplined technique in learning. 

Allow your child to start to be proactive in choosing some activities to do on their own. They will feel pride with these new responsibilities. 

8. From Twelve Years To Twenty Years

This is the most critical of psychological stages. Your children would have to deal with problems related to the teenage stage and confusion about their gender and the opposite gender. As they begin to understand themselves, they will start to answer questions satisfactorily. When your teenager is faced with an issue, this is when a rebellious nature can surface. 

They will feel lots of uncertainties regarding themself. Usually, teens will prefer to be alone and become conscious of their appearance. 

9. Factors That Influence 

Every child's development is both complex and unique. There are similarities found between a child's emotional development and their parents. These factors tend to be hereditary. As children grow their mental capacity, they are also attaining emotional maturity at the same time. The emotions of a child rely upon their level of maturity. Children with stable overall health can handle their emotions better while those who are weak, have unstable emotions, are excitable, and irritable. 

More stable emotions are also seen in intelligent children. If a child's parents express their emotions in a balanced manner and show behavior stability, their child would follow suit. A parent's violent behavior can also be adapted by their children. 

10. How To Enhance Social And Emotional Skills

Your child will tend to establish relationships with family members around them at birth. Acceptable behavior or the controlling of one's emotions is a process of development that may take some time to acquire. Children's emotional and social development process tends to carry on until their late teenage years. Parents need to create opportunities to enable their children to play and engage with other kids and help them develop their emotional and social skills. 

It helps them learn how to express their feelings as well as teaches them about their abilities. Try providing your child with limited options so they can come up with their own simple day-to-day decisions such as what dress they want to wear, what to eat for lunch, and so on.  

At a baby's birth, they will begin to form relationships with the people they are around. It might take several years for their process of development to take place, like how to behave appropriately or control their emotions. Even into their late teen years, children are still developing their emotional and social processes. Responsible parents must be able to identify what emotional and social skills their children lack as early as infancy to be able to assist in attaining it as they grow. 

Be aware that your child may or may not exhibit the signs above at a certain age, but know that all kids are special individually. Always remember to make sure your child is aware that you love them regardless of the circumstances. 