Has it ever occurred to you that even with the recent economic slump and recession, our country seems to continue consuming a lot? Thousands of wood and mounds of paper wastes are burned each day. The beautiful countryside is being destroyed by the littered waste of enough tin cans to circle the globe. Making use of something you usually throw away is one of the best feelings you can be proud of, not only the pride of saving some cash but more so of helping the country recycle and reduce its top concern, which is waste. 

Whether to make life easier or craft a useful object, you can use the everyday items listed below that would normally be tossed away. 

1. Bags 

Paper sacks can be useful in other ways, aside from their general use. Use it as a trash can by hanging it from the back of your seat in the car. It will help the children not to get tempted to litter. If someone is sick at home with a cold or the likes, you can secure a bag on one side of the bed to have a used cleansing tissue bin handy and avoid scattering the germs. 

To quickly and easily empty the cloth bag on your vacuum cleaner, shake it out over a larger paper sack. To keep the dust out when you are rolling up a rug, cover it with paper, then add heavy paper bags over the ends. 

2. Bottle Cap

You can use the bottle cap to patch dents. Does your wooden table have a dent in it? Place a wet cloth over the dented spot. Then, place the metal bottle cap at the table over the dent with the scalloped edge facing upward, not downward. Lightly press the very tip of a hot iron against the center of the cap. Repair your plunger, "aka plumber's helper," by using a bottle cap. 

You can nail a metal bottle cap to the handle end of your plunger, then force it into the rubber plunger if the rubber plunger keeps falling off of your plumber's helper. 

3. Coat Hangers

Coat hangers have so many uses that people are inclined to write about them. As the wire ones will eventually rust, we will not recommend them for something so ridiculous as using them for trellises or fences. You will, however, find them adaptable to forming a skirt hanger by pinching the ends and curving up the wire to hang the skirt by safety pins and to create a trouser hanger by pinching the ends, then to slip through the belt loops. Nothing beats a straightened coat hanger to clean and remove something wedged inside your vacuum-cleaner tube when you have no available stiff wire to use. 

And with just a little tweak, you can create a hanging rack for drying your socks, stockings, and other tiny pieces of laundry using a discarded cake rack or a refrigerator shelf rack strapped to a coat hanger at each end. Keep your hangers handy in an apartment with limited space; you can place them in the closet or on the shower rod in the bathroom. 

4. Fruit Crates

If you're a carpenter or a DIY-er, fruit crates are the best for creating various wooden projects. There are plenty of other ways to use them if you're not handy. You can use the sectional ones to set up temporary cabinets in a corner, as storage for cleaning supplies under the sink, or as canned goods shelving. You can fasten a small curtain rod with a cup hook or small nail across the front to hang a drawstring curtain over the front to hide the contents from view. 

You can your fruit cake and think of a bookcase, turn it using a shellacked of mementos and memorabilia like menus and dance programs on the area of the crate-turned-bookcase. 

5. Milk Cartons 

Like coat hangers, empty milk cartons can be turned into many other things. For a short time, some foods can be kept in one that has been thoroughly washed out in the freezer. To save yourself from constantly washing and deodorizing regular containers for odoriferous foods like fish, you can use milk boxes, cut in lengthwise, to store these food items instead. They make wonderful seed flats when you cut them lengthwise. 

When your young plants are ready to be transplanted into the garden; it is simple to move them. You can place the plant down into the soil with the sides of the carton still intact, just cut off the bottom of the carton first. You should sow thinly when doing this. Also, you can make excellent plant collars for your tomato plants by cutting milk cartons crosswise; this is best in keeping cutworms away. 

6. Newspaper 

A wonderful aid to clean with is the newspaper. When you have nothing else around you can do many things with newspapers; clean your windows, polish with dry newspaper, and swab with wet ones. When cleaning radiators, place damp newspapers underneath to catch the dirt as you brush it off. Similarly, a dampened newspaper can be used in place of a paper bag to catch vacuum cleaner dirt. Save yourself from mopping up when defrosting by spreading some newspaper over the upper shelf of your refrigerator, below the defrosting tray, but remove it once done to avoid blocking the cold from your food. 

Newspapers can also serve as a protective agent. During transportation, you can wrap wet newspaper around the roots of a plant to keep the air away or around the stems of a bouquet to keep them fresh. Avoid dampening yourself and your car by wrapping it up with a large plastic vegetable bag. Using 24 double pages inside a muslin cover makes an excellent substitute for a patient's or child's disposable bed pad rubber sheet. 

7. Rancid Grease 

You can make laundry soap from accumulated drippings or grease. Make 2 quarts of strained melted fat by collecting 5 pounds of grease. Use a cheesecloth to strain the fat and measure it after doing so. Add a single 1-pound can of lye to a quart of water as the grease is cooling. An earthenware or a stone jar is the best to use for this and make sure to pour and stir carefully using a wooden or stick spoon, not a metal one. Since lye is a powerful alkali, make sure not to splash on anything, including yourself. 

In an earthenware or enamel container, slowly pour the completely dissolved lye mix over the cooled grease. Continuously stir the new mixture until everything is combined. Add to this 2 tablespoons of borax dissolved in 1/2 cup of water and 1/2 cup of household ammonia. Keep on stirring until thick to achieve a similar consistency of a thin pudding or honey. Once done, pour the mixture into a clay or granite mold and let it solidify for a few hours. Before it gets too hard, cut the square into soap cakes or bars. Allow the cakes of soap to harden around 6 weeks in a dry place. As the soap gets older, it lasts longer and gets harder with age. 

8. Tea

Cold tea, specifically black tea, can soothe sunburn due to its tannic acid content. When your eyes are tired, it also makes a soothing poultice. Lie down, then place a piece of absorbent cotton that has been dipped into strong cold tea over closed eyelids for 15 minutes. As a substitution, use tea bags that have been lightly squeezed out. 

You can also fertilize house plants with tea leaves. Strong tea is also useful when starching dark-colored materials, and it will help prevent the white film from showing on the cloth once added into the starch solution. Using a tea-dipped cloth for wiping varnished furniture and surfaces is also recommended. 

9. Toothbrush

If you are looking for an excellent cleaner, then look no further than your old toothbrush! You can use this handy little cleaner to dust clean and lint out your typewriter keys and sewing-machine parts. You can use a soft-bristled one for flossing raised patterns on your precious silverware. To make your cut glass pieces sparkly shine, use an old toothbrush with suds and some ammonia. 

Use one when you have corners that are hard to reach when dusting. With the help of a handy-dandy old toothbrush, hard-to-get-at crevices in your stove burners and waffle irons are a problem no more. Removing mud from your shoes and boots is a simple chore when using this. 

10. Towels

When you are washing delicate glassware, place an old towel down in the dishpan first. Before you place the glasses on the drainboard, place another one there. For old towels that are just a little bit worn out at the edge, stitch it over or rebind it. To reuse towels that are already worn out in the center, cut up the good sections, then hem it to use as dishcloths, washcloths, pot holders, etc. 

You can also come up with something creative like sewing it into a mitt form with soap chips pocket for your shower or bathroom. Make a new cover for your hot water bottle. 

Reuse, it sounds just as simple as it is. Find another use for an item rather than tossing it away. Reusing an item is possible no matter the size, be it as small as a button or large as a building. You can save both the environment and your pocketbook at the same time when you practice reuse. 

It just might be the right time to think like your grandmother when you next need to fix something or get something. So, go take a visit to your local repair, rental, consignment, or vintage shop and get creative, be green, and be smart. 