A relaxing and fun way of freeing your creativity is adult coloring books. Crossing a few stumbling blocks along your coloring journey is not uncommon, just as with any other good hobby. It is wonderful if the technique that you are currently using is gaining results. After all, art is subjective, so there is no right or wrong way to do it. Solutions for some of the more common adult coloring mistakes will be shown in this article. Skipping the swatch is what we will look at first, including when you fail to plan your palette. 

The dangers caused by always comparing your work to someone else's will be explained next. Using random copy paper will be covered next, and conclude with how to ignore finger fatigue. Solutions to some of the common mistakes made in adult coloring will be at your fingertips since you now know the information in this article. 

1. Not Planning Your Palette

Before you start coloring, it is always best to build a palette, which everyone knows. Newbie colorists often make the common mistake of forgetting to plan out a palette. In the beginning, it is so simple to use all of the colors available out of excitement. It has taken a few coloring pages that were not so visually pleasing to help everyone decide on selecting a color palette to stick with. It is extremely simple to choose a color palette. 

Picking between four to five colors to work with is all that you need to do. Your coloring pages will have a more cohesive look when you bring out your creativity by limiting your choices. Stumped over what colors to select? Inspiration can be found anywhere, on the Pinterest board, your favorite photo, or your surroundings. 

2. Skipping The Swatch

Another important step, like planning your color palette, to take before beginning to work on your art is making a swatch of your colors. A workflow that is all over the place, scratchy pens, and inconsistent colors are the inconsistent colors that happen when people, unfortunately, skip this part. You can have a smoother workflow when you swatch your glitter pens, gel pens, pencils, and markers. When you are working on a piece that requires more than one sitting to finish, having a color swatch to help you select the correct color is even more important. 

Slight differences in the vibrancy of the ink can occur when it dries, or sometimes the true color of the ink is not reflected in the cap. For you to know what colors will work best for your artwork, this is why swatching your colors first when you get a new set of art materials is so very important. 

3. Using Random Copy Paper

When creating all art in general, not just when you are working on adult coloring, there is a world of difference when you use the correct kind of paper. The best your color mediums have to offer is brought out when you use artist-grade paper. Be sure that the pages of the adult coloring book you are looking at can stand up to ink saturation and a small amount of stress. 

Do not settle for less, you can not move your ink around, build your layers, or blend when using thin pages. Coloring books that use high-quality, artist-grade paper are the ones that you should select. 

4. Ignoring Finger Fatigue

Art enthusiasts, especially those who color with gel pens or colored pencils, tend to have a lot of wrist pain and finger fatigue. Repetitive strain is caused to their joints when people tend to use a lot of pressure or push hard with their wrists and fingers. Very serious issues, such as carpal tunnel syndrome, can result from this finger fatigue when you are not careful. Practice using a light grip when coloring to help prevent finger fatigue. 

When you are burnishing or pressure shading with your colored pencils, this is the only time you need to use pressure in your strokes. When you are coloring an adult coloring book, slow down, and take your time. The journey is the important thing to remember. Both practice and mindfulness are needed to keep a light hand while coloring. You will maintain healthy wrists and hands for a long time when you purposefully keep your strokes light. 

5. Always Comparing One's Work With Others

It is always difficult to compare your work against the work of others. You should never let it get to you though. Coloring, like every other skill, just takes some practice. Becoming someone famous, such as Van Gogh or Picasso, in the blink of an eye will never happen. 

Nor, do you truly need to. Just being yourself is the best way to enjoy adult coloring. You need to just sit back, relax, and enjoy the coloring journey because each person will adapt to different styles and learn at their own pace. 

Encountering stumbling blocks during your coloring journey is not an uncommon occurrence, just like it is for any other good hobby. It is wonderful when the techniques you are currently using end in the results you are aiming for. Art does not have a right or wrong way. Solutions for some of the common mistakes made in adult coloring were shown in this article. First, you learned how to skip the swatches and how to work without a defined palette. 

Next, the article discussed the risks of comparing your work to others. Finally, we looked into the use of random copy paper and finger fatigue prevention. Now that you have familiarized yourself with the concepts shared in this article, you have the solutions to some common adult coloring mistakes. 